==[[America|AMERICA]]==.

43

with sno'sr. America is also watered by the largest
rivers in the universe ; such arc those of tiic Ama-
zonas, Orinoco, Mag'da!cnii, Atrato, La Plata,
Esmeraldas, Jeneyro, Negro, t.'oca, IJcayalc,
Cauca, Putumayo, LJeni, Madera, Napo, J*a-
rana, Pilcomayo, Mississippi, St. Jiawrence, &c.
The barbarous nations belouijiug to it are iniiu-
incrable, and scattered over all parts, living in tlie
most savage state in the mountains, forests, and
lakes, without any he^td, government, or laws ;
some of them are cannibals, and they all gain their
livelihood, in general, by fishing and the chase.
Their languages are as various as their difierent
nations ; nevertheless the most universal dialect
that is spoken in [[Peru]] is the Quechuan and the
Aymaian, and in [[Nueva España]] the Mexican.
Of religions, the most common are, idolatry among
the barbarians, and the Catholic religion in those
countries which have been subdued. Some of the
idolaters worship the sun, moon, and the stars ;
but they confess, and are sensible of a superior
Being, wlio created them, and who preserves them.
They believe in the immortality of the soul, the
rewards and punishments of another world, and in
the common enemy, whom they call Zupay ; in
the universal deluge, and many other truths,
although even these arc enveloped in a thousand
errors, and disfigured with accounts and fables
which have been handed down to them by their
ancestors ; others, more savage, adore nothing, or
at least pay but little respect to their idols, which
they choose from among plants, serpents, and
quadrupeds. It is evident they have, all of them,
some confused sort of light, impressing them with
something that they cannot understand, but
which they respect and fear. The greater part of
them are given to polygamy, and they are not
without their ceremonies in matrimony, and at
their funerals ; but they are all, without excep-
tion, much addicted to drunkenness, and have
different sorts of strong drinks, which they make
of herbs, roots, fruits, &c. They are, for the
most part, robust, moderate, liberal, faithful, com-
passionate, patient, and silent ; but revengeful,
jealous, luxurious, and stupid : of an obscure
colour, with hair long and black, wiili round
faces, being of a sad countenance, beardless, and of
a good stature and person. There are some that are
of a good colour, with a cheerful and noble coun-
tenance ; and grace and pleasantness are not want-
ing amongst the women. Besides these Indians,
America is inhabited by the Europeans, who have
established themselves here since the times ot its
conquest, also by the sons of those, who arc known

by the name of Creoles, tho.se of [[Peru]] being called’
Chapetofies, and those of Nueva Ivspana Cachu-
pines. The Negroes, who are brougiit from the
coast of [[Africa]] in considerable numbers, and who
arc sold as slaves to w'ork in the sugar-cane estates,
and in the mines of gold or silver, and other ser-
vile capacities, arc the authors of a race called
Castas, or peculiar breeds : thus the Musiees are
the offspring of the Spaniard and the Indian, and
the Mulattoes of the Spaniard or White and of a
Negro or other woman ; the names of such off-
spring being Zambo, Cholo, Puchuela, Salta Atras,
Tentc en el Ayre, Quarteron, Quinteron, &c. —
This country abounds in gold, silver, copper,
quick-silver, iron, antimony, sulphur, nitre, lead,
load-stone, and marbles of every sort and colour ;
in diamonds, rubies, emeralds, amethysts, gra-
nites, alabaster, rock-crystal, and all kinds of
precious stones and minerals, besides its pearl-
fisheries, which are carried on in many parts. —
Its fields produce every kind of grain, fruit, pulse,
herbs, plants, and flowers, native to Europe, be-
sides an infinite variety of others peculiar to this
climate ; such as the cacao tree, the cinnamon,
pepper, sarsaparilla, vo^nilla, scarlet dye, to-
bacco, balsams of a thousand kinds, [[Brasil|Brazil]] and
log-wood, bark, sassafras, aloes, andc;:/^«r/ fine
smelling incense, gums, barks, resins, and medi-
cinal herbs. The number of cattle is incredible,
and the breed of European horses and mules de-
serves particular estimation. Its woods are filled
with tigers, leopards, and bears ; its rivers, with
lizards, alligators, and thousands of different kinds
of fish ; in its fields are found numbers of vipers
and snakes, difl’ering, to a surprising degree, in
their powers, qualities, forms, and colours ; also
other insects and venomous animals. The climate
is various, and is changed according to the situ-
ation of the country, or of the different places. In
the valleys and plains, and on the shores of the sea,
it is commonly very hot ; upon the slopes or skirts
of mountains, and in the country which lies more
lofty, the temperature is most commonly mild and
pleasant. Tiie copious rains that are frequent
under the equinoctial line, are not the only cause
of the mildness of temperature experienced in
those parts, but this is effected in no small degree
by the winds and snows of the neighbouring moun-
tains, from which proceeds an excessive degree of
cold. The part possessed by the King of Spain,
and which is the larger, is governed by four Vice-
roys, established in Lima, Buenos Ayres, Mexico,
and Santa Fe ; an account of which governments
w ill be lound under their articles, and for a des-
G 2

