calvesj making, as it flies, a noise wliich may be
heard at a great distance. The craggy parts
abound in cacao, so useful for the Indians, as also
in cnnchalagua. It has been attempted to pass
from Chile to [[Peru]], but this cannot be effected
during six months in the ivinter without imminent
risk, since many have been lost who have enga-
ged in this enterprise. Indeed it is said, that at
that time the Cordillera is shut up.

['I'he lofty chain of the Andes, running along the
western coast of [[America]], extends on l)otli sides
of the equator to near the 30th degree of latitude.
It is of unequal height, sinking in some parts to
600 feet from the level of the sea, and at certain
points, towering above the clouds to an elevation
of almost four miles. The colossal Chimborazo
lifts its snowy head to an altitude which would
equal that of the Peak of Teneriffe, though placed
on the top of Mount Etna. The medium height
of the chain under the equator may be reckoned at
14,000 feet, while that of the Alps and Pyrenees
hardly exceeds 8000. Its breadth is proportion-
ably great, being 60 miles at Quito, and 150 or
ยง00 at Mexico, and some districts of the [[Peru]]vian
territory. This stupendous ridge is intersected in
Peru and Nueva Granada by frequent clefts or
ravines, of amazing depth ; but to the n. of the
isthmus of Panama, it softens down by degrees,
and spreads out into the vast elevated plain of
Mexico. In the former provinces, accordingly,
the inhabitants are obliged to travel on horseback
or on foot, or even to be carried on the backs of
Indians; whereas carriages drive with ease through
the whole extent of New Spain, from Mexico to
Santa Fe, along a road of more than 15,000 miles.
The equatorial regions of America exhibit the
same composition of rock that we meet with in
other parts of the globe. The only formations
which Humboldt could not discover in his travels,
Avere those of chalk, roe-stone, grey wakke, the
topaz-rock of Werner, and the compound of ser-
pentine with granular limestone, which occurs in
Asia Minor. Granite constitutes, in South Ame-
rica, the great basis which supports the other for-
mations ; above it lies guesis, next comes mica-
ceous schist, and then primitive schist. Granu-
lar limestone, chlorite schist, and primitive trap,
often form subordinate beds in the gnesis and mi-
caceous schist, which is very abundant, and some-
times alternates with serpentine and sienite. '1 he
high ridge of the Andes is every where covered
with formations of ])orphyry, basalt, phonolite,
and greenstone : and these, being often divided
into columns, tliat appear from a distance like
nuned castles, produce a very striking and pic-

turesque effect. At the bottom of those huge
mountains, occur trvo different kinds of limestone ;
the one wuth a filiceous base, enclosing primitive
masses, and sometimes cinnabar and coal ; the
other w ith a calcareous base, and cementing toge-
ther the secondary rocks. Plains of more than
600,000 square miles are covered with an ancient
deposit of limestone, containing fossil wood and
brown iron ore. On this rests the limestone of the
Higher Alps, presenting marine petrifactions at a
vast elevation. Next appears a lamellar gypsum,
impregnated with sulphur and salt ; above this,
another calcareous formation, whitish and homo-
geneous, but sometimes cavernous. Again occurs
calcareous sandstone, then lamellar gypsum mixed
with clay ; and the series terminates with calca-
reous masses, involving flints and hornstone. But
what may perplex some geologists, is the singular
fact noticed by Humboldt, that the secondary for-
mations in the new world have such enormous
thickness and elevation. Beds of coal are found
in the neighbourhood of Santa Fe, 8650 feet above
the level of the sea ; and even at the height of
14,700, near Huanuco in [[Peru]]. The plains of
Bogota, although elevated 9000 feet, are covered
with sandstone, gypsum, shell-limestone, and even
in some parts with rock-salt. Fossil shells, Avhich
in the old continent have not been discovered high-
er than the summits of the Pyrenees, or 11,700
feet aboA-^e the sea, Avere observed in Peru, near
Micuipampa, at the height of 12,800 ; and again
at that of 14,120, besides at Huaiicavelica, Avhere
sandstone also appears. The basalt of Pichincha,..
near the city of Quito, has an elevation of 15,500
feet; while the top of the Schneekoppe in Silesia
is only 4225 feet above the sea, the highest point
in Germany Avhere that species of rock occurs.
On the other hand, granite, which in EurojAe
crowns the loftiest mountains, is not fonnd in the
American continent aboA^e the height of 11,500
feet. It is scarcely known at all in the provinces
of Quito and Peru. Tlie frozen summits of Chim-
borazo, Cayambe, and Anitsana, consist entirely of
porphyry, Avhich, on the flanks of the Andes,
forms a mass of 10 or 12,000 feet in depth. 'J'he
sandstone near Cucn^\a has a thickness of 5000
feet; and the stupendous mass of pure quartz, on
the TO. of Caxamarca, measures perpendicularly
9600 feet. It is likcAvise a remarkable fact, that
the porphyry of those mountains very frequently
contains hornblende, but never quartz, and seldom
mica. The Andes of Chile have a distinct nature
from those three chains called t'le Maritime Moun-
tains, which have been successively formed by the
Avaters of the ooean. This great interior structure

