==[[Barbadoes|BARBADOES]]==.

135

==[[It has only one river]]==, called Tuigh, the waters of
which are covered by a fluid similar to oil, and
which is used for lamps. The island is divided
into 11 parishes,, which contain 14 churches and
chapels. The names of the parishes of tliis island
are, to the n. St. Lucy’s, St. Peter’s, and St. An-
drew’s ; to the s. St. Michael’s, Christ Church,
and St. Philip’s ; and in the centre, St. James’s,
St. Thomas’s, St. Joseph’s, St. George’s, and
Si. John’s, which are divided into five districts :
and it contains four towns, called Bridge Town,
the capital, St. James’s, formerly called the Hole,
Speight’s Town, and Ostia’s, or Charles Town.

[==[[Barbadoes]]==, notwithstanding what Alcedo re-
marks, was probably first discovered by the Por-
tuguese in their voyages from [[Brasil|Brazil]], and from
them it received the name which it still retains.
It is said not to have been noticed in any sea-
chart before the year 1600. It is usually ranked
amongst the windward division of the Charibbes,
being a day or two^s sail from Surinam. From
its being the first discovered of any of these islands,
it is called the Mother of the Sugar Colonies. It
was found without occupants or claimants. The
Charibbes, for reasons altogether unknown to us,
had deserted it, and the Portuguese, satisfied
with the splendid regions they had acquired on
the continent, seem to have considered it as of
little valne. Having furnished it with a breed of
swine for the benefit of such of their countrymen
as might navigate the same track, they left the
island in all other respects as they found it. Of
the English, the first who are known to have land-
ed in tins island, were the crew of a ship called
the Olive Blossom, bound from London to Suri-
nam in 1605, and fitted out at the expence of Sir
Olive Leigh. Some years after this, a ship of
Sir William Courteen’s, a merchant of London,
returning from Brazil, was driven by stress of
weather into this island, and finding refreshments
on it, the master and seamen, on their arrival in
England, made so favourable a report of the
beauty and fertility of the country, that Lord
Ley (afterwards Earl of Marlborough, and lord
high treasurer) immediately obtained from King
James I. a grant of the island to himself
and his heirs in perpetuity. Accordingly Wil-
liam Dean, with 30 settlers, under the instiga-
tion of Courteen, arrived here safe in the latter
end of the year 1624, and laid tiie foundations of
a town, which, in the honour of the sovereign,
they denominated James Town ; and thus began
the first English settlement in the island of [[Bar]]-
badoes. In 1627 it was made over by patent to
the Earl of Carlisle, afterwards to William, Earl

of Pembroke, in trust for Courteen, and again
restored by other letters to the Earl of Carlisle,
The latter person, in order completely to ruin all
the interests in the colony of his competitor, pro-
ceeded to distribute the lands to such persons as
chose to receive grants at his hands on the terms
proposed to them. A society of London mer-
chants accepted 10,000 acres, on conditions which
promised great advantage to the proprietor ; but
they were allowed the liberty of sending out a per-
son to preside over their concerns in the colony,
and they made choice for this purpose of Charles
Woolferstone, who repaired to the island, accom-
panied with 64 persons, each of whom was au-
thorised to take up 100 acres of land. These
people landed on the 5th of July 1628, at which,
time Courteen’s settlement was in a very promis-
ing condition ; but Woolferstone declared it an
encroachment and usurpation, and being sup-
ported by the arrival of Sir William Tufton, who
was sent out as chief governor by Lord Carlisle,
in 1629, with a force sufficient for the mainte-
nance of his pretensions, he compelled the friends
of Courteen to submit ; and the interests of the
latter were thenceforth swallowed up and forgotten.
Owing to a civil war in England, many people of
peaceable tempers and dispositions, chiefly royal-
ists, took refuge in this island ; and the conse-
quent ruin of the king’s affiiirs induced a still
greater number, many of whom had been officers
of rank in his service, to follow their example.
The emigration from the mother-country to this
island was indeed so great during the commotions
in England, that in 1650 it was computed there
were 20,000 white men in Barbadoes, half of them
able to bear arms, and furnishing even a regiment of
horse to the number of 1000. ‘^These adventurers,”
says Lord Clarendon, planted themselves with-
out any body’s leave, and without being opposed
or contradicted by atiy body.” The colony, left
to its oum eflbrts, and enjoying an unlimited free-
doom of trade, flourished beyond example. In
the year 1646, however, the then Earl of Car-
lisle, who was son and heir of the patentee, stimu-
lated by the renown of its w'ealth and prosperity,
began to revive his claims as hereditary proprie-
tor ; and entering into a treaty with Lord Wil-
loughby of Parham, conveyed to that nobleman
all his rights by lease for 21 years, on condition of
receiving one half the profits in the mean time ;
but ju.stly apprehending that the resident planters
might dispute his pretensions, he very readily
concurred with Lord Willoughby in soliciting a
commission for the latter, as chief governor, un-
der the sanction of regal authority. Soon alter-]

