136

==[[B A R B A D O E S|B A R B A D O E S]]==.

[wards the whole island became the possession of
the crown, and many indeed were the disturb-
ances that succeeded respecting the right of pro-
prietorship, until the assembly passed an act, on
tlie 12th September 1663, entitled, “ An Act
for settling the Impost on the Commodities of the
Growth of this Island.”

==[[The Earliest Planters Of Barbadoes Were Some 
Times Reproached With The Gitilt Of Forcing Or De 
Coying Into Slavery The Indians Of The Neigh 
Bouring Continent|The earliest planters of Barbadoes were some-
times reproached with the gitilt of forcing or de-
coying into slavery the Indians of the neigh-
bouring continent]]==. The history of Inkle and
Yarico, which the Spectator has recorded for
the detestation of mankind, took its rise in this
island ; but happily this species of slavery was
soon abolished. The Barbadoes tar (the oil allud-
ed to by A lcedo) is a particular production of this
island. It rises out of the earth, and swims on the
surface of the M ater. It is of great use in the dry
belly-ach, and in diseases of the breast. The
form of the government of this island so very
nearly resembles that of Jamaica, which may be
found described under that article, that it is un-
necessary to enter into detail, except to observe
that the council is composed of 12 members, and
the assemby of 22. The most important variation
respects the court of chancery, which in Barba-
does is constituted of the governor and council,
whereas in Jamaica the governor is sole chancel-
lor. On the other hand, in Barbadoes the go-
vernor sits in council, even when the latter are
acting in a legislative capacity. This, in Jamai-
ca, would be considered improper and unconsti-
tutional. It may also be observed, that the courts
of grand sessions, common pleas, and exchequer,
in Barbadoes, are distinct from each other, and
not, as in Jamaica, united and blended in one
supreme court of judicature. Here is a college
founded by Colonel Codrington, the only institu-
tion of the kind in the W. Indies ; but it has not
answered the intention of the founder. The houses
of the planters are very thickly sown all along the
country, which, w ith the luxuriant productions of
the soil, and the gently swelling hills, form a de-
lighf.%1 scene. That the dreadful succession of
hurricanes, with which this and the other West
Indian islands have been infested, has contributed
to the great defalcation of its revenues, cannot be
doubted. The capital of this island was scarce
risen from the ashes to which it bad been reduced
by tuo dreadful fires, when it was torn from its
foundations, and the whole country made a scene
of desolation, by the storm of the lOth of October
1780, in which no less than 4326 of the inhabi-
tants (b’acks and whites) miserably perished ;
and the damage to the country was computed at

j 6'1, 320,564, 15s. sterling. Moreover, the trade
of this and some others of the islands, suffers con-
siderably by a duty of 4| per cent, on exported
produce ; out of which, however, the governor’s
salary, j62000 a-year, is paid. The crown ac-
quired this revenue in the reign of Charles II.
w hich the planters agreed to, in order to secure
possessions to which they had uncertain titles.

==[[Barbadoes Is About 21 Miles In Length From High
Point|Barbadoes is about 21 miles in length from High
point]]==, its northern extremity, to South point ;
and 14 in breadth, from the Chair near Kitridge
bay, e. to Valiant Ruyalist fort, w. / and con-
tains 106,470 acres of land, most of which is un-
der cultivation. It lies 20 leagues e. from St.
Vincent, which may be^en in a clear day, 25
from St. Lucia, 28 5. e. from Martinico, 60 n. e.
from Trinidad, and 100 s. e. from St. Christo-
pher’s. The soil in the low lands is black, some-
what reddish in the shallow parts, on the hills of
a chalky marl, and near the sea generally sandy.
Of this variety of soil, the black mould is best,
suited for the cultivation of the cane, and, with
the aid of manure, has given as great returns of
sugar, in favourable seasons, as any in the West
Indies, the prime lands of St. Kitt’s excepted.
We are assured, that about the year 1670, Bar-
badoes could boast of 50,000 white, and upwards
of 100,000 black inhabitants, whose labours, it is
said, gave employment to 60,000 tons of ship-
ping. This account is supposed to be much ex-
aggerated. It cannot however be doubted, that
the inhabitants of this island have decreased with
a rapidity seldom known in any other country.
According to the most authentic returns of the
number of whites in 1724, and of its Negroes in
1753, the former consisted of no more than
18,295, the latter of 69,870. In 1786 the num-
bers were 16,167 whites, 838 free people of co-
lour, and 62,115 Negroes. It appears too that
the annual produce of this island (particularly
sugar) has decreased in a much greater propor-
tion than in any other of the West Indian colo-
nies. Postlethwayte states the crop of sugar, in
1736, at 22,769 hogsheads of 13cwt. which is
equal to 19,800 of 15 cwt. ; and the author of the
European Settlements, published in 1761, cal-
culates the average crop at 25,000 hogsheads.
As the author first quoted gives a precise num-
ber, it is probable his statement was grounded on
good authority. If so, the island has fallen off
nearly one half in the annual growth of its princi-
pal staple. On an average of eight years (from
1740 to 1748) the exports were, 13,948 hogsheads
of sugar, of 15 cwt. 12,884 puncheons of rum, of
100 gallons, 60 hogsheads of molasses, 4667 bagsl
2

