==[[Bermudas|BERMUDAS]]==.

161

ilem petal ure is so good, tliat it is spring nearly the
whole year round, the fields and trees being clad
•in eternal green ; but the tempests of thunder and
lightning, together with the hurricanes, are at
times tremendous. They are, however, antici-
pated by the inhabitants, who can tell their ap-
proach by watching the circle of the moon. These
islands are so fertile that it is usual to gather in
two crops or harvests in each year. They pro-
duce much amber, pearls, cochineal, and abun-
dance of turtles, the flesh of which is a great deli-
cacy among the English. This island abounds
in'swine, and in birds of different species ; among
these is that which, among naturalists, is called the
crane, being a marine bird, and building its nest
in the holes of the earth. The climate is so
healthy, that scarcely any one is observed to die
except through old age. In these islands are
found no species whatever of venomous animals ;
and they abound with a sort of cedar, of which are
built brigs and other small craft, which are much
prized in America ; and this wood forms one part
of its commerce. The English established them-
selves here in 1612, and formed a colony, which
-was enlarged by Captain Turquer in 1116, he
being the first who planted in it tobacco and
wheat. From this time the prosperity of it in-
creased daily ; and shortly after, a fresh supply of
500 men arrived under the direction of Captain
Butler, who divided the island into counties and
parishes. Its population, however, was at the
highest during the civil wars of England, when a
large portion of the English nobility betook them-
selves to America, and among the rest, the poet
Waller to this island, who afterwards wrote a de-
scription of it in a beautiful English poem. Its
inhabitants may amount to about 5000. Formerly
it carried on a great traffic in the article of hats
made of palm-trees, and which were much
esteemed by the ladies in all parts ; but this has
greatly fallen to decay. [They lie in the form of
a shepherd’s crook, and are distant from the Land’s
End in England 1500 leagues, from the Madei-
ras 1200, from Hispaniola 400, and 200 from cape
Hatteras in Carolina, which last is the nearest land
to them. The islands are walled with rocks ; and
by reason of these, together with shoals, are diffi-
cult to approach. The entrances into the har-
bours and channels are narrow as well as shoallj',
4ind are more dangerous by reason of the strong
current which sets to the n. e. from the gulf of
Florida. The Bermudians are chiefly sea-faring
men, and the Negroes are very expert mariners,
in the late war there were at one time between 15
you. T.

and 20 privateers fitted out from hence, which
were manned by Negro slaves, who behaved irre-
proachably ; and such is the state of slavery here,
and so much are they attached to their masters,
that such as were captured always returned when
it was in their power; a singular instance of which
occurred in the state of [[Massachusetts]]. The ship
Regulator, a privateer, was carried into Boston,
and had 70 slaves on board : 60 of them returned
in a flag of truce, 9 returned by way of New
A^ork, one only was missing, who died. The
government is conducted under a governor, named
by the British crown, a council, and a general as-
sembly. There are nine churches, of which three
clergymen have the charge ; and there is one
Presbyterian church. These islands contain from
12 to 13,000 acres of poor land, of which nine
parts in ten are either uncultivated, or reserved in
woods, which consisf chiefly of cedar, for the
supply of ship-building. There are about 200
acres laid out in cotton. The main island is about
16 miles long, and from one to two in breadth.
The parish of St. George is an island to the e. of
the main land, in which stands the town of St.
George’s, containing about 500 houses. Contigu-
ous to that is St. David’s island, which supplies
the town with provisions. The air' is healthy, and
a continual spring prevails ; and most of the pro-
ductions of the West Indies might be cultivated
here. The houses are built of a soft stone, which
is sawn like timber, but being washed with lime,
it becomes hard ; these stones are greatly in request
throughout the West Indies for filtrating water.
The houses are white as snow, which, beheld from
an eminence, contrasted with the greenness of the
cedars and pasture ground, and the multitude of
islands full in view, realize what the poets have
feigned of the Elysian fields. In the present war
the Bermudas have been the usual winter station
of the British naval force in the American seas ;
and even ships of 74 guns have lately been car-
ried into and out of the harbour, notwithstanding
the extreme narrowness of the entrance. The
climate is delightful in winter, but very hot in
summer. Some accounls say that these islands
contain from 15 to 20,000 inhabitants ; but Mr.
Edwards says the number of white people is
5462, of blacks 4919. Old writers observe that
there were 3000 English iii these islands in
1633. — Three or four hundred go annually to
Turk’s island to rake salt, which is carried to
America for provisions, or sold to such as may
call for it there for cash, Lat. 32^12' «. Long.
64° 40' tiJ.]

==[[Y]]==

