178

==[[Boston|BOSTON]]==.

came from England, being unwilling to pay the
heavy duties imposed on that article. The result
of the struggle was, that they declared themselves
independent of the English crown, together with
the other colonies, as may be seen in the article
Unii ED States. All sects are tolerated in this
city, and in it are ten churches.

[==[[Boston]]==, the capital of the state of [[Massachu]]-
setts, the largest town in New England, is now the
third in size and rank in the United States, and
lies in lat. 42° 18' 15" n. and long. 70° 59' 53" w.
This town, with the towns of Hingham, Chelsea,
and Hull, constitute the county of [[Suffolk]], 176
miles s. w. of Wiscasset, 61 s. by w. of Ports-
mouth, 164 n. e. of New Haven, 252 n. e. of
New York, 347 n. e. of Philadelphia, and 500
n. e. of the city of Washington. Boston is built
upon a peninsula of irregular form at the bottom
of Massachusetts bay, and is joined to the main
land by an isthmus on the s. end of the town, lead-
ing to Roxbury. It is two miles long, but is of
unequal breadth ; the broadest part is 726 yards.
The peninsula contains about 700 acres, (other ac-
counts say 1000&gt;, on which are 2376 dwelling
houses. The number of inhabitants in 1790 was
18,038, but the increase has been very consider-
able since. The town is intersected by 97 streets,
36 lanes, and 26 alleys, besides 18 courts, &c. ;
most of these are irregular, and not very conve-
nient. State street, Common street, and a few
others, are exceptions to this general character;
the former is very spacious, and being on a line
with Long wharf, where strangers usually land,
exhibits a flattering idea of the town. Here are
19 edifices for public worship, of which nine
are for Congregationalists, three for Episcopalians,
and two for Baptists ; the Friends, Roman Ca-
tholics, Methodists, Sandemanians, and Univer-
salists, have one each. Most of these are orna-
mented with beautiful spires, with clocks and bells.
The other public buildings are the state-house,
court-house, two theatres, concert-hall, faneuil-
hall, gaol, an alms-house, a work-house, a bride-
well, and powder-magazine. Franklin place,
adjoining Federal street theatre, is a great orna-
ment to tlie town ; it contains a monument of Dr.
Franklin, from whom it takes its name, and is
encompased on two sides with buildings, which,
in point of elegance, are not exceeded perhaps in
the United States. Here are kept in capacious
rooms, given and fitted up for the purpose, the
Boston library, and the valuable collections of the
historical society. Most of the public buildings
are handsome, and some of them are elegant. A
magnificent state-house is now erecting in Boston,

on the s. side of Beacon hill, fronting the Mall,
the corner-stone of which was laid with great
formality and parade on the 4th of July 1795,
and which overtops the monument on Beacon hill.
The market-place, in which the faneuil-hall is situ-
ated, is supplied with all kinds of provisions which
the country affords. The fish market, in particu-
lar, by the bounteous supplies of the ocean antf
rivers, not only furnishes the rich with the rarest
productions, but often provides the poor with a
cheap and grateful repast. Boston harbour is
formed by point Alderton on the s. and by Nahant
point on the n. It is variegated with about forty
islands, of which fifteen only can be properly
called so ; the others being small rocks or banks
of sand, slightly covered with verdure. These
islands afford excellent pasturage, hay, and grain,
and furnish agreeable places of resort in summer
to parties of pleasure. Castle island is about three
miles from the town ; its fortifications, formerly
called Castle William, defend the entrance of the
harbour. It is garrisoned by about 50 soldiers,
who serve as a guard for the convicts, who are
sent here to hard labour. The convicts are
chiefly employed in making nails. The light-
house stands on a small island on the n. entrance
of the channel, (point Alderton and Nantasket
heights being on the 5.), and is about 65 feet high.
To steer for it from cape Cotl, the course is w. n. w.
when within one league of the cape; from cape
Cod to the light-house is about 16- leagues ; from
cape Ann the course is s. w. distant ten leagues.
A cannon is lodged and mounted at the light-
house to answer sigtmls. Only seven of the islands
in the bay are w ithin the jurisdiction of the town,
and taxed with it, viz. Noddle’s, Hog, Long,
Deer, Spectacle, Governor’s, and Apple islands.
The wharfs and quays in Boston are about 80
in number, and very convenient for vessels.
Long wharf, or Boston pier, in particular, ex-
tends from- the bottom of State street 1743 feet into
the harbour in a straight line. The breadth is
104 feet. At the end are 17 feet of water at ebb
tide. Adjoining to this wharf on the n. is a con-
venient wharf called Minot’s T, from the name
of its former proprietor and its form. Vessels are
suyqjlied here with fresh water from a well sur-
rounded by salt water, which has teen dug at a
great expence. Long wharf in every respect ex-
ceeds any thing of the kind in the United States.
In February 1796, a company was incorporated
to cut a canal between this harbour and Roxbury,
which is neaily completed. Charles river and
West Boston bridges are highly useful and orna-
mental to Boston; and both are on Charles river, 2

