184

==[[Bra|BRA]]==

eenturj, called Gregory Thaumaturgus, from the
miracles he is said to perform] of [[Brasil|Brazil]], and by
Father Antonio de Vieira, a celebrated orator.
These savage Indians feast upon the bodies of
those whom they take in battle, fancying that they
thereby revenge the deaths of their parents or re-
lations who may have fallen under the hands of the
enemy. They enjoy a long life, not only from the
salubrity of the climate, but from the temperance
which is usual amongst them. They are poly-
gamists, and all of them, men as well as women,
go naked. They believe in the creation of the
world and the deluge ; and they think that there
is a paradise beyond their mountains, where they
live for ever in sensual enjoyments, such as sing-
ing, dancihg, &c. They have a very great terror
of the devil, who, they affirm, appears to them in
an horrible shape, and whom they call in their
language agnian. They have neither king nor
prince, and in their affairs of state the decision
always rests with the ciders, who are universally
reverenced and esteemed amongst them. Their
weapons are bows and arrows, and cimeters, or, as
they call them, macanas. When they move from
one quarter to another, the wife carries the arms,
and the children the haramoc, which is a net
made of the bark of plants, which, being tied to
two trees at its extremities, serves tliem for house
and bed in their travels. They maintain them-
selves by the chase and by fishing. The greater
part of them are of a fierce aspect, which they in-
crease by adorning themselves with the teeth and
bones of monkeys, and with black and red paint,
which they smear over their faces and bodies.
They are of a lofty stature, robust, well made, and
of an extraordinary agility in running. The tem-
perature of this country is very unequal ; for to-
wards the n. it is very warm and unhealthy. The
soil is extremely fertile, and when cultivated yields
every thing for the convenience and luxury of life.
After the fine gold and diamond mines with which
this country abounds were discovered, the natives
gave themselves up entirely to the working of them,
despising the culture of the land, and looking for
the necessary supplies of food from other parts.
Its principal productions may be reduced to sugar,
maize, cotton, tobacco, indigo, ipecacuana, balsam
of copaive, and Brazil-wood ; of this last consists
the principal branch of its commerce, as well with
the English as the Dutch, and to the coast of
Africa as well as Europe. From the latter three
fleets set out annually, one for Pernambuco, an-
other for Rio Janeiro, and a third for the bay of
Todos Santos; fromwhcnce, upon their return, they
join and make for Portugal, loaded with immense

==[[Z I L|Z I L]]==.

treasures. [Th^se fleets have ceased to make their
voyages.] After the expulsion of the Dutch, this
country was, as it were, for a time disregarded by
its possessors ; for they had not as yet ascertained
or discovered its rich mines ; at least not before the
year 1685. The minister of Portugal was well
aware of the utility that would be derived to his
country by the territories of this kingdom being
well allotted and cultivated, and that by establish-
ing the capital in the bay of Todos Santos, it
would be extremely convenient and centrical for
the purposes of commerce; but the rigour and
cruelty with which the first founders treated the
poor Indians, were a sufficient obstacle against his
bringing about his laudable designs. The Mus-
tees, who are the descendants of the Spaniards and
the natives, having kept on good terms with both
parties, were the means by which all things were
brought to a mutual reconciliation. The govern-
ment was then vested in some priests of acknow-
ledged virtue : these immediatley scattered them-
selves over the whole coast,founding settlements,and
penetrating into the interior; they first discovered
the different gold mines, which have been since
worked (o such prodigious emolument ; as also
the mines of diamonds, topazes, and other precious
stones. This kingdom abounds in birds, exqui-
site not less for the beauty of their plumage than
for the sweetness of their note ; in many kinds of
rare animals, in vipers and venomous insects, and
in an incredible number of tigers and monkeys of
all sorts. It abounds also in every kind of pulse
and fruit; and amongst these, the pine is most
exquisite. This kingdom is governed by a vice-
roy appointed by the king of Portugal, and w’ho
is always one of the head of the nobility of that
kingdom ; his residence being in the city of St.
Salvador, which is the capital. [The trade of
[[Brasil|Brazil]] is very great, and increases every year.
They import as many as 40,000 Negroes annually.
The exports of Brazil are diamonds, gold, sugar,
tobacco, hides, drugs, and medicines ; and they
receive in return woollen goods of all kinds,
linens, laces, silks, hats, lead, tin, pewter, coppef,
iron, beef, and cheese. They also receive from
Madeira a great quantity of wine, vinegar, and
brandy ; and from the Azores 25,000/. worth of
other liquors. The gold and diamond mines are
but a recent discovery ; they were first opened in
1681, and have since yielded above five millions
sterling annually, of which a fifth part belongs to
the crown. These, with the sugar plantations,
occupy so many hands, that agriculture lies ne-
glected, and Brazil depends upon Europe for its
daily bread ; although before the discovery of]

