187

==[[[[Brasil|Brazil]]|BRAZIL]]==.

dispositions, and was removed from the govern-
ment, after having held it for 11 years, till 1602.

10. Diego Bolelho, the first governor that was
nominated by Philip III. : he governed five years,
from 1602 to 1607.

1 1. Don Diego de Meneses, who arrived at La
Bahia in 1608, and governed till 1613, when he
was succeeded by,

12. Gaspar de Sousa, who entered the govern-
ment in the above year, rendering it famous by
the expulsion of the French, who had established
themselves in the island of [[San]] Luis de Maraiian :
he visited all the provinces of the kingdom, from
whence arose great advantages to the different set-
tlements, as likewise an increase of the revenues
during the short period of his stay, which Avas
four years, till 161/.

13. Don Luis de Sousa, Avho entered in the above
year to succeed the former ; and Avho, liaving re-
mained in the government for four other years,
namely to 1621, resigned it in favour of,

==[[M]]==. Diego de Mendoza Hurtado, who entered in
the year 1622, at which period the Dutch had in-
vaded [[Brasil|Brazil]] : La Baliia was then besieged by
them, and he Avas made prisoner, after having va-
liantly defended himself with only 18 men ; he
was carried in triumph to Holland in 1624.

15. Matias de Albuquerque, who Avas govern-,
ing at Pernambuco when he was called to be nomi-
nated to his government, Avhich, in the interim,
Avas administered by the fathers of the company of
Jesuits ; but as he was at least 150 leagues off,
and as the country Avas beset Avith enemies, it
was thought expedient to jAromote, by way of
an inter-regnum, the auditor-general, Anton Mez-
quita de Oliveira, Avhp, owing to his age and Avant
of military science, so necessary under such circum-
stances, ceded the government to the Colonels Don
Lorenzo Cavalcanti de Alburquerque, and Don
Juan de Barros Cardoso, Avho also ceded it to the
bishop, Don Marcos Texeira, and he delivered tlie
Aveighty concern to Francisco Nunez Marinho de
Eza, sent out as the right governor from Pernam-
buco ; but before this person could arrive, there
was nomiiiated as successor,

16. Don Francisco de Moura Rolim, native of
Pernambuco, who had followed a military career
with great credit in Italy and Flanders, and Avho
gained no less applause during his government
here, and in the period of the war till 1626.

17. Don Diego Luis de Oliveira, a gentleman
of high character and estimation, acquired .‘mongst
the troops in Flanders : he was, in consequence,
sent for to [[Brasil|Brazil]] to oppose the progress Avhieh the
Dutch were making ; he compicU ly fulfilled the

object for Avhich he was chosen, until, in the year
1634, he was destined to drive the Dutch from the
island of [[Curazao]], delivering the government to,

18. Pedro de Silva, who took possession in 1635 ;
but a rivalship having arisen between him and the
general of the troops, Conde Banliolo ; he, Avith
heroic disinterestedness, ceded to him the govern-
ment and all the faculties ; admonishing him, how-
ever, strongly to mind the public Aveal. This ac-
tion was rcAvarded by the king, who immediately
gave him the title of Count of San Lorenzo, and
nominated him as successor to the government.

19. Don Fernando Mascarenas, Count of La
Torre, a person of the highest consequence in
Portugal, on account of his birth, virtues, perso-
nal qualities, and military tactics; he entered La
Bahia in 1639, and taking the command of the
arn;y against the Dutch, ceded the political go-
vernment to,

20. Don Fasco Mascarenas, Count of Ovidos,
Avho exercised it until the year 1640, when the
king nominafed,

21. Don Jorge Mascarenas, Marquis ofMont-
alvan, the first Avho had the title of viceroy, but
Avho, being immersed in ruinous litigations, Avas
deposed and sent to Lisbon, in 1641, by the bishop,
Don Pedro de Silva, the commander, Luis Becerra,
and the chief overseer, Lorenzo de Brito Correa ;
these took to themselves the government, though
their conduct Avas disapproved by flie new king,
Don Juan IF. formerly Duke of Braganza.

22. Antonio Tellez de Meneses, Count of Villa
Ponca, of high blood and of great merits, acquired
in India : he governed Avith address until the
year 1652.

23. Juan Rodriguez de Vasconcelos, Count of
Castclmayor, illustrious for his birth, and for the
ufjjust imprisonment Avhich he suffered in Carta-
gena : he Avas commander of the armies of Portu-
gal in the provinces of Entre Douro y Mino and
of Ale/dejo ; from Avhence he passed over to Bra-
zil in 1653.

24. Don Jeronimo do Ataide, Count of Atoguia,
who, both in the court and in the field, had filled
the highest situations Avith great credit and ad-
dress : be Avas governor of the province of [[Tres]]
Montes at the time of his being called to this;
here also his rectitude and affability have perpe-
tuated the memory of his government ; he conti-
nued in office until the year 1657.

25. Francisco Barreto de Meneses, nominated
by the Queen Regent of Portugal, as a reward
for his proAvess and valour exhibited in the re-
covery of Pernambuco, where he Avas brigadier-
general ; he however testified a certain haughti-

