==[[[[Brasil|Brazil]]|BRAZIL]]==.

191

£a grant, fitted out a considerable armament, and
went to explore the country, and form their settle-
ment in person. He began to survey the coast
somewhere about Rio de Janeiro, to which he gave
that name, because he discovered it on the first of
January ; and he proceeded s. as far as the Plata,
naming the places which he surveyed on the way,
from the days on which the several discoveries
were made. Having well examined the coast, he
fixed upon one of these islands for his settlement,
which, like Goa, are separated from the main land
by an elbow of the sea; but this spot, which had
been chosen for the new town, was not found con-
venient, and the colonists round removed to the ad-
joining isle of St.Vincentcj from which the cap-
taincy derives its name.

7. The first sugar-canes planted. — About the
year 1531, Martim Affbnso made an unsuccessful
expedition southward into the interior, in search of
mines, from which he returned with the loss of 80
Eurojreans. In all other respects his colony was
fortunate. Here the first sugar-canes were planted,
which were brought from Madeira ; here the
first cattle were reared ; and here the other cap-
taincies stocked themselves with both. Whether
tbe honour of having introduced them into [[Brasil|Brazil]]
be due to the founder of the colony is not stated :
a battle or a massacre would have been recorded.
The king, after some time, recalled Martim
Affonso, and sent him to India; but when he re-
turned to Portugal, he watched over the welfare of
his captaincy, sending out supplies and settlers ;
and it descended in a flourishing condition to his
sou. Wheat and barley were little used here, be-
cause the food of the country was liked so well ;
what little wheat was raised was for delicacies, and
for the wafer. Marmalade was made here, and sold
to the other captaincies. Oysters of such a size
are found here, that their shells are used for
dishes ; and once, when a bishop of Bahia visited
this province, they washed his feet in one, as in a
basin. The whole coast abounds with shell-fish,
which the natives came dow'n from the interior to
catch at certain seasons : they built their huts upon
some dry spot amid the mango groves, fed upon
fish while the fishery lasted, and dried them to
cany home. So long had this practice been con-
tinued, that hills had accumulated of the shells,
soil collected on them, and trees taken root there
and grown to maturity. These hills, which are
called ostreiras, have supplied all the lime that has
been used in the captaincy, from its foundation to
the present day. In some of them the shells are
formed into lime-stone ; in others they are un-
changed ; tools and broken pottery of the Indians

are frequently found in them, and bones of the
dead ; for they who died during the fishing season,
were laid on these heaps, and covered over with
shells.

8. St. Amaro and Tamaraco. — Pero Lopes de
Sousa was less fortunate than his brother. He
chose to have his 50 leagues of coast in two allot-
ments. The one, which obtained the name of St,
Amaro, adjoined St. Vincente, and bordered so
close upon the main settlement, the towns being
only three leagues asunder^ that if they had not
belonged to two brothers, the settlers would have
but ill agreed. As long as this was the case, the
neighbourhood was advantageous to both ; but
when the property devolved to other possessors,
between whom there were not the same ties, it be-
came an endless cause of litigation. Tamaraca,
the other division, lay between Pernambuco and
Paraiba, many degrees nearer the line. Here be
had some hard conflicts with the Pitiguares, who
besieged him in his town ; but he succeeded at
length in driving them from the neighbourhood.
Soon afterwards he perished by shipwreck.

9. Paraiba . — A fidalgo, by name Pedro de
Goes, had been one of the companions of Pero
Lopes, and had suflered shipwreck with him in
the Plata ; but neither this, nor the disastrous fate
of his friend, disheartened him. He became fond
of [[Brasil|Brazil]], and asked fora captaincy when the king
was disposing of them in such prodigal grants.
It seems that he had no great interest at court, for
his grant was restricted to 30 leagues of coast, be-
tween the captaincies of St. Vincente and Espiritu
Santo ; if the space between them did not extend
to so much, he was to take it such as it was.
Goes embarked the whole of his property upon the
adventure, and many thousand crowns were ad-
vanced by a certain Martim Ferreira, who pro-
posed to have sugar-works established there upon
their joint account. The expedition sailed to the
river Paraiba, and there Goes fortified himself, and
remained two years at peace with the Goeytacazes.
After that time war broke out betw'eeu them, and
continued five years, to his great loss : j:»eace was
made, and soon broken by the savages. There is no
reason to suspect the Portuguese of being the ag-
gressors in this instance, it was too much their in-
terest to keep the treaty. The colonists were weak
and utterly dispirited ; they became cfamoroiis to
quit the unlucky settlement, and Goes w'as obliged
to yield to their clamours, and evacuate it. Ves-
sels were obtained Irom Espiritu Santo to bring
them away.

10. The Goeytacazes. — The tribe which ex-
pelled Goes were probably of the same stock as the]

