==[[[[Brasil|Brazil]]|BRAZIL]]==.

m

[==[[Goaynazesy and like them did not devour their
prisoners]]==. Tlicy were fairer than the other savages,
and their language, it is said, more barbarous,
which may be understood to mean that some of its
sounds were more difficult. They were a braver
race, and fought not in woods and ambushes, but
in open field. They would swim off shore with a
short stick in the hand, sharp at both ends ; with
this they would attack a shark, thrust it into his
open mouth and gag him, then drown him, drag
him ashore, eat the flesh, and head their arrows
with his teeth.

11. Espiniu Santo . — The captaincy of Espiritu
Santo was at this time next to St. Amaro ; for llio
de Janeiro was not settled till a later period. This
«vas asked and obtained by Vasco Fernandes Cou-
tinho, a fidalgo, who having spent the best years of
his life in India, and amassed a fortune there, ven-
tured and lo^t the whole in this scheme of colon i-

, zation. His limits were to begin where those of
Puerto Seguro ended on t he s. He fitted out a great
expedition, in which not less than 60 fidalgos and
men of the royal household embarked. DonSimam
de Castello-Branco, and Don Jorge de Menezes,
were sent with him as degradados, that is to say,
banished men. Of all shocking tyrannies, that of
the Portuguese in the Spice islands stands among the
foremost in atrocity, and Don Jorge de Menezes,
in the first rank of their tyrants for diabolical
cruelty. Indeed in an age when the cruelties of
Vasco da Gama, and the great Albuquerque, were
recorded without one word of reprehension, as
doubtless they were without one feeling of huma-
nity, it may well be supposed, when aman of family
and fortune was banished for such offences to
[[Brasil|Brazil]], what the measure of those offences must
have been. They had a prosperous voyage to
their place of destination, and began a town, to
which they gave the name of Our Lady of Vic-
tory, before the battle had been fought. The title
was for a while sufficiently verified, and the
Goay nazes, the first enemies with whom they had
to deal, Avere defeated in some of the first engage-
ments. The building went on Avith spirit ; canes
were planted, four sugar-Avorks established, and
- Coutinho, seeing every thing thus prosperous,
Avent to Lisbon to collect more colonists, and pro-
cure stores and implements for an expedition into
tlie country, in search of mines.

12. The Papanazes. — The coast of this and. the
next captaincy had been possessed by the Papa-
nazes, but they were now driven back by the Goay-
tacazes and the Tupiniquins. The language of the
Papanazes was scarcely understood by these ene-
mies, notwithstanding their long Avars. They

==[[Avere hunters and fishers]]==, and slept upon the ground'
on leaves. If one of them killed another, he Ava»
delivered up to the relations of the dead, and in the
presence of all the kindred of both parties, imme-
diately strangled and interred. All parties lamented
loudly at the execution ; they then feasted and
drank together for many days, and no enmity re-^
mained. Even if the deed Avas accidental, the
punishment Avas the same. Should the offender
have escaped, his son, his daughter, or the nearest
of his blood, was given up in his stead ; but the
substitute, instead of suffering death, remained a
slave to the nearest relation of the slain.

13. Puerto Seguro . — The adjoining captaincy
of Puerto Seguro was allotted to Pedro de Campoi
Tourinho, a native of Viana da Foz de Lima, of
noble family, and an excellent navigator. He sold
all that he pc/ssessed in Portugal to embark it in
this expedition, and set sail Avith his wife and
family, and a large body of colonists. They
landed in the harbour where Cabral had taken pos-
session of [[Brasil|Brazil]], and there fortified themselves
upon a spot Avhich retains the name of Puerto
Seguro, given it by that discoverer, and which
still remains the capital of the captaincy.

14. The Tupiniquins. — The Tupiniquins made
some opposition at first. They possessed the coun-
try from the river Camarau to the river Circare, an
extent of nearly five degrees ; and the first settlers
in thisandthetwoadjoining captaincies had to main-
tain their ground against them. Peace however
Avas soon made, and the Tupiniquins observed
it faithfully. They were sometimes at Avar Avith
the Tupinaes; but these tribes, being of the same
stock, did not regard- each other as regularly and
naturally enemies, and their quarrels were con-
sidered as mere accidental circumstances, which
Avere to leave no hatred behind ; the two tribes
blended at last into one. Of all the [[Brasil|Brazil]]ians,
these are said to have been the most domestic and
the most faithful, indefatigable, and excellently
brave. Their manners and language resembled
those of the Tupinambas ; but it Avas so long since
they had branched apart, that all memory of the
common stock was lost, and there was a deadly
enmity between them. The Tupinambas Avere the
most poAverful ; pressed by them on the one side, by
the dreadful Aymures on the other, and profiting
less by the friendship of the Portuguese than they
suffered from their tyranny, they gradually forsook
the country. Good men were never Ava.nting who
lifted up their voices against this tyrann}' and op-
pression ; but the guilt AA'as so general that it has
become a national imputation. Tourinho is not
implicated in this guilt ; he had influence enougli.}

