193

==[[[[Brasil|Brazil]]|BRAZIL]]==.

( over the natives to collect many' of them into vil-"
ages, and this is proof that he dealt towards them
well and wisely. Sugar-works were established,
with such success that they produced a consider-
able quantity for exportation to the mother coun-
try. No kine could be kept in this colony, be-
cause of an herb which is said to have occasioned
haemorrhoids, whereof they died ; j’ct liorses,
asses, and goats, were not affected by it. The
disease was probably imputed to a wrong cause.

15. The Ilfteos captaincy of the isles
owes its inapplicable name to the Rio dos riheos, a
river so called because there are three islands just
at its bar. Jorge de Figueiredo Correa, Escrivam
da Fazenda to Joam III. was the first donatory.
The office w hich he held prevented him from going
himself to take possession of his grant ; he there-
fore deputed a Castillian knight, by name Fran-
cisco Romeiro. Romeiro anchored in the harbour
of Tinhare, and began his new town on the height
or Morro de St. Paulo, from whence however he
found itexpedienttoremove iltoitspresentsituation.
It was first called St. Jorge, in compliment to the
lord of the land ; but the same improper appella-
tion which had been given to tlie captaincy ex-
tended to its capital. The Tupiniquins soon made
peace with the settlers, and being of all the Bra-
2 ilian tribes the most tractable, lived with them on
such friendly terms that the colony soon became
prosperous. The son of the original proprietor
sold the captaincy to Lucas Giraldes : he ex pended
considerable wealth in improving if, and it flourished
so wellthat there were in a short time eight or nine
sugar-works established.

16. Bahia . — The coast from the great Rio de
S. Francisco to the Ponla da Padrani de Bahia,
was given to Francisco Pereira Coutinlio, a fidalgo
who had distinguished himself in India ; and the
bay itself, with all its creeks, was afterwards
added to the grant. He fixed his settlement in the
bay, at the place now called Villa Velha, which
was Caramuru’s dwelling place ; two of his com-
panions, who were men of noble family, married
two of Caramuru’s daughters, and as the natives
w'ere for his sake well aflected towards the Portii-
gueze, every thing went on w ell for a time. Bahia
de Todos os Santos, or All Saints baj^, wherein the
capital of [[Brasil|Brazil]] was afterwards erected, is un-
questionably one of the finest harbours in the world.
Here, as well as at Rio de Janeiro upon the same
coast, the sea seems to have broken in upon the
land ; or more probably some huge lake has borne
doAvn its barrier, and made way to the ocean. The
entrance, which is nearly three leagues wide, is
from tlie s. having the continent on the right hand,

==[[Vol|VOL]]==. I.

and the long island of [[Itaparica]] on the left. You
are then in a bay, extending to the n. and w. a
whole degree, and branching inland in every di-
rection, with deep water every where, and many
navigable rivers discharging themselves into it.
This little Mediterranean is spotted with above an
hundred islands.

17. Rexiolulions in ihe Reconcave . — The old
natives preserved the memory of three revolutions
in this Reconcave, as the bay with all its creeks
and coves is denominated. As far back as the
memory of man among savages could reach, the
Tapuyas possessed it ; but as this part of [[Brasil|Brazil]] is
in every respect one of the most highly favoured
places under heaven, it was too desirable a land to
be peaceably enjoyed, when there was no other
law than that of the strongest. The Tupinaes
expelled them, and for many year^ retained pos-
session, still keeping up war on the side of the in-
terior with those whom they had driven there. A^
length the Tupinambas from the other side of the
river San Francisco migrated here, and in like
manner thrust out the Tupinaes, who fell back
upon the Tapuyas, and drove them again before
them. These last conquerors were masters of the
country when the Portuguese arrived ; but they
had quarrelled among themselves. Those who
dwelt between the river San Francisco and the Rio
Real, or Royal river, weie at mortal enniitx with
those nearer the bay, and the inhabitants of one
side the bay, w ith those on the other ; they carried
on hostilities both by land and water, and all par-
ties devoured (heir prisoners. A fresh feud broke
out among those who dwelt on the c. side; the
cause was that which, in barbarous and heroic, or
semi-barbaious ages, has furnished so much matter
for history and song. The daughter ofa chief had
been carried oft' against her lather’s coiisent ; the
ravishei refused to restore her ; the father, not be-
ing powerful enough to compel hitn, retired with
all his clan to the island of [[Itaparica]] ; the hordes
upon the river Paraguazu coalesced with the sece-
ders, and a deadly war begar. between the two par-
ties. The llha do Medo, or Island of Fear, de-
rives its name from the frequent ambushes and
conflicts of Avhich it was then made the scene.
The .seceders multiplied and spread along the coast
of the Ilheos, and the feud in all its rancour was
perpetuated.

18. Expulsion of Coutinho . — This was the state
of the T upinambas in Bahia, when Coutinho formed
his establishment among them. That fidalgo had
served in India, and India was not a school .vhere
humanity or political wisdom was to be learnt. A
son of one of the native chiefs was slain by tlie]
c c

