194

==[[[[Brasil|Brazil]]|BRAZIL]]==.

[==[[Portuguese; the circumstances are not recorded]]==,
but it is admitted that the deed was done wrong-
fully. Coutinbo paid dearly for his offence.
These fierce savages, then the most formidable of
all the [[Brasil|Brazil]]ian tribes, burnt down his sugar-
works, destroyed his plantations, killed his bas-
tard son, and after more than a seven years war,
compelled him, and the wreck of his colony, to
abandon the Bcconcave. Caramuru followed the
fate of his countrymen, and retired with them to
the adjoining captaincy of the Ilhoos. When
thejr Avere gone, the Tupinarnbas began to feel the
want of those articles wliich they were now accus-
tomed to receive in tralhc, and which, from being
luxuries, they had suffered to become wants. A
treaty was opened , the difference was adjusted, and
Coutinho embarked to return in one caravel, and
Caramuru in another. They were Avrecked within
the bar, on the' shoals of the island Itaparica ; all
got to shore, and there he and his people were
1 reach cron sly slain by the islanders. Caramuru
and the crew of his vessel were spared ; a proof
how wisely he had ever demeaned himself towards
the natives. He returned to his old abode in the
bay. The wife and children of Coutinho did not
perish with him ; they had probably been left at
Jlheos : but he had expended the whole of his
Indian spoils and of his property : they were
left destitute, and came to the hospital for support.

19. Pernambuco. — One other captaincy was es-
tablished about the same time as these others, that
of Pernambuco. A factory had previously been
settled there, Avhich a ship from Marseilles took,
and left 70 men in it, thinking to maintain posses-
sion ; but the ship was captured on her return,
and intelligence being thus early obtained at Lis-
bon, immediate measures were taken for the re-
covery of the place. The donatory, Duarte Coelho
Pereira, asked it as the reward of his services in
India. The line of coast between the Rio de
S. Francisco and the Rio de Juraza was granted
him ; he came himself, with his Avifeand children,
and many of his kinsmen, to begin the colony, and
landed in the port of Pernambuco ; — the entrance
is through an opening in a long stone reef, and this
the native name implies. Ct, que linda situacam
para se fundar huma villa ! (O, how fine a situ-
ation for founding a town !) Duarte Coelho is said
to have exclaimed on beholding it ; and hence the
town Avas called Olinda.

20. The Cahetes. — This coast was possessed by
the Cahetes, a tribe remarkable for using boats, the
fabric of which was soraetliing between thatch and
wicker-Avork, being of a long and strong kind of
straAv knit to the timbers. These they made large

enough to carry 10 or 12^ persons. They are said
to have been more brutal than the other tribes, in-
asmuch as there was little natural affection to be
perceived in them. An instance is related of one
who was a slave to the Portuguese, and threAv liis
child into the river because she cried. The single
fact Avould prove nothing more than individual
brutality ; but it is mentioned as an example of
their general unfeeling nature. From these people
Duarte Coelho had to gain by inches, says Rocha
Pitta, Avhat was granted him by leagues. They
attacked and besieged him in his nt^w town. The
French, who now (about the year 1540) were
trading to that coast, led them on ; their numbers
were very great, and had he been less experienced,
or less able in war, his colony would probably
have been rooted out. He Avas wounded during
the siege, many of his people slain, and the place
reduced to extremity ; nevertheless they beat off
the enemy, and having made an alliance with the
Tobayares, had strength and spirit enough to fol-
low up their success.

21. The Tobayares . — The Tobayares were the
first [[Brasil|Brazil]]ian tribe who leagued Avith the Portu-
guese. One of their leaders, named Tabyra, pos-
sessed great talents for war, and was the scourge of
the hostile savages : he went among them himself
to spy out their camps, and listen to their projects t
these tribes therefore must have been of one stock,
and have spoken the same dialect. He laid am-
bushes, led on assaults in the night, and harassed
them with incessant alarms. At length they as-
sembled their Avhole force, came upon him and sur-
rounded him : Tabyra sallied forth ; an arrow
pierced his eye, he plucked it out, and the eye-
ball on it, and turning to his followers, said, h^
could see to beat his enemies with one ; and ac-
cordingly he gave them a complete overthrow, not-
Avithstanding their numbers. Itagybe, the arm of
iron, AA'as another of these Tobayares, who dis-
tinguished himself on the same side; and Piragybe,
the arm of the fish, (if the name be rightly trans-
lated by this unimaginable meaning), rendered
such services to the Portuguese, that he was re-
warded with the order of Christ and a pension.
Some years of peace and prosperity ensued : then
again (about the year 1548) a war broke out,
which was occasioned, as usual, by the miscon-
duct of the settlers. This is the first war between
the Portuguese and the savages, of which any de-
tail has been preserved ; and the detail is curious :
it is related by Hans Stade, the first person Avho
wrote any account of Brazil. Hans Avas the son
of a good man at Homberg in the Hessian terri-
tory. He was minded to seek his fortune in India,]

