==[[Frazil|FRAZIL]]==.

195

[and with that intent sailed from Holland in a fleet
of merchantmen ii'oiii^ to Setiibal for salt ; but
when he reached Portugal the Indian ships were
gone, so he accepted the post of gunner in a vessel
bound for [[Brasil|Brazil]] on a trading voyage, and car-
rying out convicts to Pernambuco. There was a
smaller ship in company : they were well provided
with all kinds of warlike stores, and had orders to
attack all Frenchmen whom they might And trad-
ing in those parts. They made cape St. Aiigus-
tines in 88 days, on the 28tli Jan. 1548, ami en-
tered the port of Pernambuco. Here the captain
delivered his convicts to Coelho, meaning to pro-
ceed and traffic wherever it n!ir»-ht be found most
convenient it happened, however, that just at this
time the natives rose against the Portuguese, and
were about to besiege the settlement of Garazu,
which was not far distant : Coelho could spare
them no support, because he expected to be at-
tacked bimself ; he therefore requested these ships
to assist him, and Hans was sent with 40 men in a
boat to their succour.

22. Siege of Garazu . — Garazu was built in the
woods, upon a creek which ran about two miles in-
land ; its garrison, including this reird’orcernent,
consisted of 90 Europeans and 30 slaves, some of
whom were Negroes, others natives. The force
which attacked them was computed at 8000, pro-
bably an exaggerated number. There were no
other fortifications than the palisade, which the
Portuguese had adopted from the [[Brasil|Brazil]]ians. The
besiegers piled up two rude bulwarks of trees,
within which they retired at night for security
against any sudden attack : they dug pits, in which
they Avere safe from shot by day, and froiu which
they frequently started at different times, and
rushed on, hoping to win the place by surprise.
AVhenthey saw the guns aimed at them they fell
upon the ground. Sometimes they approaclied the
palisade, and threw their javelins over, for the
chance there was that some wound might be in-
flicted by their fall ; they shot fire arrows, headed
with waxed cotton, at the houses ; and whenever
they drew nigh, it was wdtli loud threats that they
Avould devour their enemies. The Portuguese soon
began to want food, because it was the custom to
dig the mandioc, of which their bread was made,
every day, or at farthest on tliQ alternate days ;
and now they were blockaded, and coidd not go
out to perform this necessary work. Two boats
Avere sent for food to the island of [[Itamaraca]],
which is at the entrance of the creek, and Avhere
there Avas another settlement ; and Hans Avas of the
party. Tlie creek is narroAv in one place, and
there the savages endeavoured to obstruct the na-

vigation by laying great trees acros.s : this obstacle
the Portuguese removed by main force ; but while
they were thus delayed the tide was ebbing, and
before the boats could roach Itamaraca they were
left dry. Instead of attacking them, the savages
raised a heap of dry Avood between the boats and
the shore, set fire to it, and threw into the flames a
species of pepper which groAvs there abundantly,
and produces a pungent smoke, by Avhich they
thought to sufibcate, or otherAvise annoy them. A
breath of Avind from the opposite quarter would have
defeated (his artifice, thougii it failed in this instance
because the Avood did not burn ; and Avheu the tide
floated them, the Portuguese proceed to Itamaraca,
and Avere there supplied with Aviiat (hey sought.
Meantime (lie savages cut (avo large trees nearly
through, Avh.ich grew beside the narroAvest part of
the creek, and fastened to them the Ions: and lim-
ber shoots of a plant which they called sippo;
these shoots resemble the liop plant, except that
they are thicker. When they in the boats drcAV
nigh and perceived this, they called out to (heir
felloAvs in the fort to come and help them, for the
place was Avithin hearing, though the Avood con-
cealed it from sight ; the savages knew Avhat this
meant, and as soon as they began to shout, shouted
also, and efi’cctually drowned their Avords : all,
therefore, that the Portuguese could do was, for
one part of tliem to endeavour to confuse the ene-
mies’ attention, while the roAvers pulled up for their
lives : this succeeded, one of the trees Aveiit down
in a slant direction on the bank, the other fell be-
liiud one of the boats, and brushed it in its fall.
Tiie siege had already lasted a month ; the savages
saw tliemselves thus disappointed in the hope of
reducing Garazu by famine; their perseverance
was exhausted, and they made peace and broke up.
The Portuguese had not lost a single man, and the
besiegers not many. After this easy war the colony
continued to prosper during the remainder of
Duarte Coelho’s life.

23. E.vpeditious up to 1552. — Amongst the most
notable of the Portuguese expeditions to [[Brasil|Brazil]], up
to the middle of the 16th century, we have to
mention that of Aires da Cunha to Marauan ; that
of Sebastian Cabot, that of Diego Garcia, that of
D. P. de Mendoza, whose force consisted of 11
ships and 800 men, and who laid the foundation of
the city of Nuestra Seilorade Buenos Ayres ; that
of Alonso de Cabrera, sent out to the reinforce-
ment of the former ; the attempt of Gonzalo Pi-
zaiTo to find the Dorado ; the voyage of Orellana,
and the expedition of Hernando de Bibera, in quest
of the Amazons : but as a narration of them Avould
not suit the plan of this Avork, Ave refer the reader]

