197

==[[[[Brasil|Brazil]]|BRAZIL]]==.

('them Ins daughter, or auy thing else which they
chose to ask ; and few ventured to incur the sin,
for if they predicted the death of one who had
offended them, the wretch took to his Iiammoc
instantly, in such full expectation of dying, that
he would neither eat nor drink, and the predic-
tion was a sentence which faith effectually execu-
ted. Their mode of quackery was that which is
oommon to most savage conjurers ; they sucked
the part affected, and then produced a piece of
wood, bone, or other extraneous substance, as what
they had extracted by the operation.

5. The mandioc the common food and drink . —
The native mode of cultivating the mandioc was
rude and summary; they cut down the trees, let
them lie till they were dry enough to burn, and
then planted them anew between the stumps. They
•ate the dry flour in a manner which baffled all
attempts at imitation ; for, taking it between their
fingers, they tossed it into their mouths so neatly
that not a single grain fell beside. No European
ever tried to perform this feat without powdering
his face or his clothes, to the amusement of the
savages. When the mandioc failed, what they
called stick-flour (in Portuguese farinha de pao)
was made from the wood of the urucuri-iba,
which they cut in pieces and bruised ; and this
being less liable to corrupt than the mandioc, is
now generally used in the [[Brasil|Brazil]]ian ships. The
mandioc supplied them also with their banqeting
drink. They prepared it by a curious process,
which savage man has often been ingenious enough
to invent, and never cleanly enough to reject.
The roots were sliced, boiled till they became soft,
and set aside to cool. The young women then
chewed them, after which they were returned into
the vessel, which was filled with water, and once
more boiled, being stirred the whole time. When
this had been continued sufficiently long, the un-
strained contents were poured into earthen jars of
great size, which were buried up to the middle in
the floor of the house ; these were closely stopt,
and in the course of two days fermentation took
place. They had an odd superstition, that if it
was made by men it would be good for nothing.
They never ate at their drinking parties, nor ever
desisted from drinking while one drop of liquor
remained ; but having exhausted all in one house,
removed to the next, and so on till they had drank
out all in the town. Fond as the native Brazilians
were of fermented liquors, they were as nice in
the choice of water as we are respecting wine, and
wondered at the imprudence or ignorance of the
Europeans in seeming to be indifferent concerning
the quality of what they drank. They preferred

the sweetest, lightest, and such as deposited no
sediment, and they kept it in vessels of porous pot-
tery, so that it was kept cool by constant transu-
dation. Pure water exposed to the morning dew,
and to the air, was a favourite rernedy both with
the native and Portuguese empirics ; the air and
dew were supposed to temper it, and to separate
its terrestrial from its aerial parts. It is subject of
speculation, whether the philosophy of tliis quack-
ery could have been of savage growth ?

6. Marriages. — No man married till he had
taken an enemy, nor w as suffered to partake of the
drinking-feast while he remained single. As soon
as a girl became marriageable, her hair was cut
off and her back scarified, and she wore a neck-
lace of the teeth of beasts till the hah- had grown
again. The scars thus made were considered
honourable ornaments. Cotton cords were tietl
round her waist and round the fleshy part of both
arms ; they denoted a state of maidenhood, and if
any but a maiden wore them, they were persuader!
that the anhanga would fetch her away. This
seems to have been a gratuitous superstition ; it
cannot have been invented for the purpose of keep-
ing the women chaste till marriage, for these bands
were broken without fear, ana incontinence was
not regarded as an offence. Chastity, like con&gt;-
passion, is one of the virtues of civilization ; th«
seeds are in us, but will not grow up without culture.
Their custom of herding .together in large and
undivided dormitories produced an obvious and
pernicious effect ; all decency was destroyed by it ;
universal lewdness was the consequence ; and this
in its turn led to the most loathsome of all out-
rages against human nature. If a man was tired
of a wife he gave her away, and he took as many
as he pleased. The first had some privileges ; she
had a separate birth in the dormitory, and a field
which she cultivated for her own use. These
privileges however did not prevent her from being
envious of those who supplanted her and the
wives who found themselves neglected, consoled
themselves by initiating the boys in debauchery.
The husbands seem to have known nothing of
jealousy ; it cannot perhaps exist without love,
and love also is a refinement. There prevailed
among them the Jewish custom, that the brother
or nearest kinsman of the deceased took his widow
to wife.

7. Condition of women among them. — The more
brutal the tribe, the worse always is the treatment
of the women. The Tupinambas were in many
respects an improved race ; their wives had some-
thing more than their due share of labour, but
they were aot treated with brutality, and their]

