m

==[[[[Brasil|Brazil]]|BRAZIL]]==.

==[[I^condition was on the whole happy]]==. They set
and dug the mandioc ; they sowed and gathered
the maize. An odd superstition prevailed, that it
a sort of earth-alrnond, which the Portuguese call
amendoens, was planted by men, it would not grow.
The Tiipinambas were fond of acting upon a
physical theory ; and it is probable, that in this
allotment of agricultural labours, they proceeded
upon the same hypothesis as the more barbarous
savages of the Orinoco, who explained it to Gumilia
when he remontrated against it. P'ather, said
they, you do not understand our custom, and that
is the reason why you do not like it. Women
knowhow to bring forth, which is a thing that
we do not know. When they sow and plant, the
stalk of maize produces two or three heads, the
root of mandioc two or three baskets full, and
every thing multiplies in like manner from their
hands. Spinning and weaving, for they had a
sort of loom, were properly the women’s work.
Having taken the cotton from the pod, they pulled
it abroad; no distaff was used; the spindle was
about a foot long and a finger thick ; it was passed
through a little ball, and the thread fastened to
the top ; this they twirled between the hands, and
sent spinning into the air : they could do it as they
walked. In this manner they made cords strong
enough for their hammocs, and likewise so fine a
tliread, that a waistcoat woven of it, which De
Lery took to France, was mistaken there for silk.
When their haramoc was dirty, as it must soon
have been soiled by the smoke of their everlasting
fires, they bleached it by means of a sort of gourd,
which, when cut in pieces, boiled, and stirred,
raised a lather, and being used as soap, made the
cotton white as snow. The women were skilful
potters. They dried their vessels in the sun, then
inverted them, and covered them with dry bark, to
which they set fire, and thus baked them sufficient-
ly. Many of the American tribes carried this
art to great perfection; there are some who bury
their dead in jars large enough to receive them
erect. The Tupinambas, by means of some white
liquid, glazed the inside of their utensils so well,
that it is said the potters in France could not do it
better. The outside was generally finished with
less care ; those however in which they kept their
food were frequently painted in scrolls and flou-
rishes, intricately intertwisted and nicely execu-
ted, but after no pattern ; nor could they copy
what they had once produced. This earthen
ware was m common use, and De Lery ob-
serves, that in this respect the savages were
better furnished than those persons in his own
country who fed from trenchers and wooden bowls.

==[[They made baskets both of wicker-work and of
straw]]==.

8. Other customs of the Tupi tribes . — The men
were not deficient in ingenuity. They cut the
trunk of the Goayambira, a tree which is about
the girth of a man’s leg, in lengths of ten or twelve
palms, and slipt the bark off whole; this served
them as a case for their bows and arrows. Bark
canoes they made whole. The tree which was
used for this purpose is called by Stade yga-
ywera ; they took off the bark in one piece, then
keeping the middle straight and stretched by means
of thwarts, they curved and contracted the two
ends by fire, and the boat was made. The bark
was about an inch in tliickness ; the canoe com-
monly four feet wide, and some 40 in length ; some
would carry thirty persons. They seldom went
more than half a league from the coast, and if the
weather was bad, they landed and carried the
canoe on shore. Their modes of fishing evinced
much dexterity ; yet it is remarkable that they
had not applied the net to this purpose, as their
hammocs were of net-work. They pierced the
fish with arrows, and if a larger one carried the
arrow down, would dive to the depth of six fathoms
in pursuit. Such was their power in the water that
they caught fish by the hand, and did not fear to
attack the great water-snake in its own element.
Another method was by beating the water, while
some of the party were ready with gourds, scooped
like a bowl, to slip under the smaller fry, as
they rose, stunned or stupified, to the sur-
face. For angling they used a thorn, till hooks
were introduced among them; these were what
the children were particularly desirous of ob-
taining from the Europeans. When tliey went
on the water to angle, it was upon a raft
composed of five. or six lengths of wood, about
arm thick, fastened together with withes, just
long and wide enough to support ihem ; on this
they sat with their legs extended,, and paddled out
to sea. Sometimes they dammed a stream and
poisoned the water. This art, though generally
known among the American Indians,^ seems na
where to have been generally used ; partly per-
iiaps because they had discovered that it was de-
structive to the young fry, and also because it
requires no exertion of skill, and affords none of
the pleasure and uncertainty of pursuit. They pre-
served fish by drying it on the beucan, (a method
which preserves it from becoming putrid, and
from worms, but not from a species of mite, which
is very destructive), and then reducing it to pow-
der. In catching monkeys for their European
customers they were less ingenious ; they had noj

