199

==[[[[Brasil|Brazil]]|BRAZIL]]==.

[better device than to brin^ the animal down with
HU arrow, and then heal the wound. They were
fond of taming birds and of teaching parrots to
talk. Some of these birds were at perfect liberty,
and flew whither tiiey would, yet were so familiar
with those who fed and fondled them, that they
would come from the woods at a call. Lizards
were suft'ered to live in their houses ; so also Avas
a large species of harmless snake. Dogs Avere soon
obtained from the Portuguese, and in less than half
a century after the discovery of the new Avorld,
European poultry Avere domesticated among half
the tribes of South America. The Tupinambas
had a method of dying their feathers Avith [[Brasil|Brazil]]
Avood : they kept them in large holloAV canes, Avhiclr
were closed Avith Avax, to preserve them from a
mischievous species of moth, called arauers ; these
insects made quick Avork Avith leather ; cuirasses and
bucklers were soon skinned by them ; and if the car-
case of a beast Avas left uncovered for a single night,
they Avould make the bones clean by the morning.

9. Their treatment of strangers. — As soon as a
guest arrived at one of their Aullages, he went, if
lie was a stranger, to the dAvelling of the chief, at
the entrance of Avhose birth a hammoc was SAVung
for him. The chief then came and questioned
him, Avhile the others s.at round and listened in
silence. The elders afterwards consulted apart
concerning him, whether he were an enemy who
was come to spy out their weakness ; an enemy
had little chance of escaping their penetration, and
if he were detected he was put to death. But if
the new-comer had formerly been a guest, he went
to the same family Avhich he had before visited,
and Avhose privilege it Avas to exercise the rights of
hospitality towards him for ever after : if he be-
took himself to another host, it was an affront to
them. The master of the family resigned to him
his own hammoc, and the Avife brought him food
before they asked any questions. Then the women
came round, and seated themselves on the floor,
hid their faces with their hands, and began to
lament, he also joining in the lamentation, and not
unfrequently shedding real tears. This custom
prevails extensively among the Indians, and is
more natural than may perhaps immediately be
perceived : for the feeling which first rises is of
the lapse of time since their last meeting, of the
friends whom they have lost during that interval,
and of the changes and chances of human life.
It is remarkable that they had no propensity to
thieving. On De Lery’s first visit to them, one
took his hat and put it on ; another girded on his
sword to his naked side ; a third dressed himself in
his doublet. He Avas a little alarmed at being thus

undressed, but it Avas their custom, and every thing
was soon restored. They Avere a grateful race, and
remembered that they had received gifts after the
giver had forgotten it. Tiiey Avere liberal, as ready
to bestow as to ask; Avhatever the house contained
Avas at the guest’s service, and any one might par-
take their food. They were Avilling, and even
Avatchful to oblige; if an European, av horn they
liked, Avas Aveary A\hen travelling in tlicir com-
pany, they Avould cheerfully carry him.

10. Treatment of the sick, — It is among the
worst parts of their character, that they Avere un-
feeling to the sick, and when they thought the case
hopeless, neglected to give them food, so that
many died rather of want than of disease. In their
burials they tied fast the limbs of the dead man,
that he might not be able to get up, and infest his
friends Avith his visits ; and Avhoever happened to
have any thing which had belonged to the dead,
produced it, that it might be buried with him, lest
he should come and claim it. The nearest rda-
tion dug the grave : Avhen the wife died it Avas the
husbamrs office, and he assisted to lay her there.
One cause Avhich retarded the improvement of the
Tupi tribe was the practice of frequently remov-
ing their habitations. They never remained longer
in one place than the palm thatch of their houses
lasted : as soon as that rotted and let in the rain,
instead of repairing it, they migrated. This was
not because the adjoining soil had been exhausted,
but from a persuasion that change of abode was
essential to health ; and a superstition, that if they
departed from the custom of their forefathers, they
should be destroyed. When they removed, the
women were the beasts of burthen, and carried the
hammocs, pots, Avooden pestles and mortars, and
all other household stock. The husband only
took his Aveapons, and the wife, says Marcgraff,
is loaded like a mule. She swings a great basket
behind her by a band which passes over the fore-
head, carries another on her head, and has several
empty gourds, which are for drinking vessels,
hanging at her side ; one of these serves as a saddle
for the child, who sits astride it, and holds on.
Being thus equipped, she carries the parrot in one
hand, and leads the dog with the other, if it
rained while they Avere on their way, they fixed
two stakes in the ground, and made a thatch with
palm leaves, sufficient against Avind and weather
lor the service of the night.

11. The first bishop , — We shall here resume
the thread of our history : The number of Jesuits
soon began to increase, and in the year l.b52 there
arrived in [[Brasil|Brazil]] D. Pedro Fernandes Sardinha,
as bishop of Brazil; bringing Avith him priests,]

