==[[[[Brasil|Brazil]]|BRAZIL]]==.

201

[wUH 3500 men ; and it is worthy of observation,
(hat llie force which Holland sent out to conquer
[[Brasil|Brazil]], exceeded what Spain would send to pro-
tect it in more than the proportion of ten to one.
Four years afterwards, not without several remon-
.strances on the part of the Brazilians, the trade
was thrown open, reserving to the company the
traffic in slaves, in instruments of war, and in Bra-
zilian woods. But all persons high in office were
prohibited from trading altogether, lest they should
al)use their power for the sake of profit. One of
the senators returning to Holland about this time,
laid before the West India company a detailed
account of the state of their conquests. They
were now in possession of six provinces, extending
from Seregipe to Seara. The first of these had
been utterly laid waste by Giesselin and Schoppe
when they conquered it ; the latter had only a
single fort garrisoned by forty men, but it sup-
plied the Dutch sometimes with allies, and with
such articles as the natives collected for traffic.
Pernambuco, the most important of these captain-
cies, contained five towns, Garazu or Iguara^u,
Olinda, Recife, Bella Pojuca, and Serinhaem ; it
had also several villages which were equal to small
towns in size. Before the Dutch invasion, there
had been 121 sugar- works, each itself a village;
but 34 of these were now deserted. In Itamaraca
14 works were still employed, of 23 which flourish-
ed before the conquest. Paraiba had suffered less ;
18 were at work, and only two had been destroyed.
Rio Grande had originally but two, and one was
ruined. In the whole of the Dutch captaincies
120 were going on ; 46 had been stopt. The
tenths of their produce were leased at the follow-
ing rates; those of Pernambuco for 148,500 florins;
Itamaraca and Gojanafor 19,000; Paraiba 54,000.
A tax called the pensam^ upon the Pernambuco
sugar-works, tvas leased for 26,000. The small
tenths, as they were called, made the whole amount
to 280,900 florins.

4. Want of colonists . — The country had severely
suffered from the Dutch invasion ; large tracts
were devastated, and more inhabitants had been
cut off, than would in many long years be sup-
plied by the slow course of nature. The city of
Recife had thriven ; it was the seat of govern-
ment, the chief military and naval post, and the
great commercial mart, and houses were crowded
there wherever room could be found to place them.
There were Dutchmen who looked on in hope to
the days when Recife would be another Tyre ; and
could these men have inspired their countrymen
with their own generous and enterprising spirit,
that anticipation would have been realized, They

von. I.

cried aloud for colonists; send over to us, they
said, your handicrafts, whose utmost industry at
home can scarcely supply for them the absolute
wants of life ; here they may speedily enrich them-
selves. Three, four, and six florins a day, were
the wages for builders and carpenters ; that kind
of mechanical work which the sugar-engines re-
quired, was still more highly paid. Three sorts
of men, they said, were wanted in [[Brasil|Brazil]] : men of
capital, who would speculate in sugar-wo''ks, ar-
tificers, and persons in the employ of the com-
pany, who, when they retired from their offices,
W'ould betake themselves to agriculture, and settle
themselves as quietly as upon their native soil.
With such men the country would soon be as
flourishing as the Dutch had found it.

5. 2'/ie Jexos . — The Portuguese were held in
subjection only by fear ; but many Portuguese
Jews from liollarid had taken their abode in a
country where they could speak their own lan-
guage as Avell as enjoy their own religion. These
were excellent subjects; they exercised the cha-
racteristic industry of their original nation, secure
of enjoyitig its fruits under a free government.
Some of the Portuguese [[Brasil|Brazil]]ians also, gladly
throwing off the mask which they had so long
been compelled to wear, joined their brethren of
the synagogue. The open joy with which they
now celebrated their ceremonies attracted too
much notice ; it excited horror in the Catholics,
and even the Dutch themselves, less liberal than
their own laws, pretended that the toleration of
Holland did not extend to Brazil ; the senate con-
ceded to, and perhaps partook of the popular feel-
ing, and hence arose the edict by which the Jews
were ordered to perform their rites more in private.

6. The savages. — The native savages, whose
numbers from the Lagoas to the Potengi were esti-
mated now at less than 2000 fighting men, had little
reason to rejoice in their change of masters. No-
thing but the desire of obtaining European com-
modities could induce them to work at all, and
these commodities were now more easily attainable;
yet more work was required from them, because
Negroes were scarcer and dearer than they had
formerly been, some having faithfully followed
kind masters in their emigration, others having
gone over to the Dutch to obtain their freedom,
others again more wisely joining their brethren
at the Palmares. The article in most estimation
among them was Osnaburgh linen, — with that
which was manufactured at Rouen and at Stein-
furt they had been overstocked. The savages
never could be persuaded to hire themselves for a
longer terra than twenty days ; a Dutch overseer]

==[[D D|D D]]==

