202

==[[B R A Z Ix|B R A Z IX]]==.

[resided in every village to keep tkem to tlieir task,
and see that their employers paid them fairly;
before the time expired they generally demanded
their wages with a suspicious feeling, for which
there was probably enough reason ; and when
they were paid they not oafrequently fled from the
unfinished job. Many employments which used to
be exercised by Negroes, were now required from
them, and they often took to flight in consequence.

7. Dutch missionaries . — A few Dutch mission-
aries laboured to teach them a Lutheran instead of
A Popish creed ; but did not succeed in making
any proselytes.

8. 'Force of the Dutch . — The military force of
4he Dutch in [[Brasil|Brazil]] amounted only to 6180 men,
to whom it was supposed 1000 Indians might be
added. This whole force was required for gar-
risons ; there was none to spare for pursuing their
successes, nor even for defending the country
against the marauding parties of the Portuguese.
Under any minister but Olivares, Spain would
have extirpated them in one campaign. The
Dutch senator confessed in his memorial, that
they owed tlieir safety more to the ndgligence of
the enemy than to their own strength.

9. 'Z'Ac/r successes . — It is true, that in the
course of about 43 years, the company had fitted
out 800 ships, which cost 90,000,000 of livres,
3,750,000/. In this space of time they captured
,545 vessels belonging to their enemies, which,
with the cargoes, sold for 180,000,000 mf livres,
7,500,000/. The dividend had never been below
20 per cent, and had often risen to 50. They had,
by taking advantage of the delays and misconduct
of their opponents, subjugated, in the space of
seven years, the captainships of Pernambuco,
Tarnaraca, Paraiba, and Rio Grande. In short,
■their eflbrts were attended with such astonishing
success in this and other parts of America, that
from the time of the consolidation of the West
India company in 1024 to 1637, they had destroy-
ed and taken from the Spaniards and Portuguese
money and merchandize of various kinds, to the
value of 45,000,000 of florins, or 4,500,000/. of our
money ; and out of 800 ships fitted out against
them by the crown of Spain, they took or des-
troyed 547.

10. Feats of Count lyiaurice.—FA^ied with the ac-
quisition of this wealth, which flowed into Amster-
dam instead of Lisbon, the company had resolved
to attempt the conquest of the whole ofthe [[Brasil|Brazil]]s,
and had entrusted this enterprise to Maurice of
Nassau, a near relation of the Prince of Orange,
and who , had already greatly distinguished him-
jiclf in the service ofthe states. The Count, atter

a very obstinate resistance, defeated the Porta*
guese, and forced their camp at Porto Cabelo,
though strongly entrenched. After this he laid
siege to the fortress of Povacaon, and forced its
garrison, of 600 men, to surrender. Count Mau-
rice next took the town of Openeda, on the rivesr
of St. Francis, where he erected a fort, as well as
another at the mouth of the river, by which he
effectually covered his new conquests, after which
he returned to Olinda. During his stay in this
city, he was sedulously occupied in organizing the
civil and military government, and in fitting out
two fleets. One of these, under the command of
Admiral Lichthart, was ordered to attack the s,
coast of [[[[Brasil|Brazil]]]], while the other, commanded by
Commodore Hanskins, was destined to a service
of still greater importance, that of securing a sta-
tion on the opposite shore of Africa. With this
view, it was resolved to attack the Portuguese
castle of St. Goerge de la Mina, on the coast of
Guinea, in the neighbourhood of which the Dutch
possessed a strong settlement. Commodore Hans-
kins therefore joined the Dutch governor of this
place Oil the 25th of July, when, attacking the
above-mentioned castle, which was then deemed
one of tire most formidable in that part of the
world, "they obliged it, after a siege of some length,
to surrender- Having thus succeeded in his enter-
prise, the commodore returned to Olinda, where
he was received by Count Maurice with all that
distinction which the achievement merited. The
campaign of 1638 was equally glorious and suc-
cessful on the part of the Dutch ; for in that year
the Count took the capital of the captainship of
Segerippa, and reduced the whole province under
the subjection of the Dutch. These splendid suc-
. cesses induced the natives of Seara, one of the
n. captainships, to declare in their favour, and to
offer, as the price of their restoration to liberty,
to assist them against the Portuguese ; on which,
a body of troops being sent to join them, these
united forces soon reduced the whole district.
Count Maurice now determined to attack St. Salva-
dor, in the bay of All Saints, which was in some
measure considered as the capital of all Brazil ; and
with this view he embarked all the troops he
could spare for this expedition at Olinda, and
landed them in the bay, expecting by the prompt-
ness of his measures to take the Portuguese by sur-
prise. He succeeded, indeed, and without much
resistance, in making himself master of the strong
fort of Albert, of that of St. Bartholomew, and of
the celebrated castle of St. Philip; and encouraged
by this success, he erected two batteries, with the
view of attacking fort Roses, which covered thej

