20 ^

==[[B R Az It|B R AZIt]]==.

[they offered for their non-performance. Thrown
, off their guard , by what they supposed the friendly
dispositions of their neighbours, Count Maurice
and the directors of the West , India company con-
ceived they had nothing now to dread, either from
the natives or the Portuguese; but even these arts
of their rivals would not probably have led to
their final overthrow, had it not been for the nar-
row and illiberal views of the company itself.
Fully confident that the Dutch had secured a
firm and permanent settlement in [[Brasil|Brazil]], they dis-
patched orders to Count Maurice to adopt such
measures as would augment their revenue, by for-
warding vast cargoes of sugar, and the other com-
modities of the country-: they particularly en-
joined him not to receive the debts of the com-
pany in -small sums, but to enforce payment all at
once. Count Maurice remonstrated against these
orders, and represented to the company the incon-
veniences and distress which would attend their
execution. He represented to them, that the
.country had only enjoyed a short state of tranquil-
lity, after a long-protracted and expensive war;
rthat most of the company’s debtors were Portu-
guese, who had settled in their territories, and hi-
therto acted in the most honourable manner, and
therefore ought to be treated with liberality, and
not urged to extremities ; but the company were
deaf to his arguments. They knew that Brazil
was a rich country ; and indulging a truly mer-
cantile spirit, they could see no reason why all that
it produced should not be instantly shipped for
Holland. Other parts of Count Maurice’s con-
duct likewise afforded them a subject of discon-
tent. Opposite to the Beceiffe is situated a com-
modious island, upon which he ordered a town to
be built, and well fortified, chiefly out of the ruins
of Olinda. This town, to which he gave the
name of Mauriceburgh, in a short time became so
■extensive, that he united it to the Beceiffe, which
was become the centre of the Dutch commerce, by
means of a stone bridge. These improvements,
which were undertaken for the public benefit, and
with a view of securing the company’s capital from
accidents, were not relished by the proprietors, as
the expence attending them amounted to above
40,000/. ; but what created in their minds still
greater discontent, was the splendid palace built
by Count Maurice for his own use. This magni-
ficent edifice Avas erected in such a situation as to
command an extensive prospect both by sea and
land ; it was surrounded by gardens, elegantly
laid out, and planted with citrons, lemons, figs,
and other fruit-trees. In its front was a marble
.battery, rising gradually from the river-side, upon

which were mounted 10 pieces of cannon. The
Count ulso possessed a large villa at a short dis-
tance in the country, encompassed by fine gardens
fidorned Avitb fish-ponds, and protected by strong
walls ; the whole being so disposed as to serve at
once for the purposes of pleasure and the defence
of the city, Avhich it covered on that side as a
fort. Within the fortifications were also laid out
extensive parks and meadoAvs, which, by judicious
management, became capable of producing every
thing necessary for the subsistence of the garrison,
and in the disposition of which, utility and beauty
Avere equally combined.

13. The Count recalled to Eterope. — -Thus did
Count Maurice expend the treasures, Avhich Avere
the fruits of his conquests and victories, in the im-
provement of the colony, AA'hich an individual of
less generosity would have appropriated to his
own private advantage. But this disinterested
and public-spirited conduct, Avhich ought to have
ensured to him the applause and gratitude of his
country, appears to have produced a contrary ef-
fect ; for while thus employed, it was finally re-
solved to recal him, as the only means of draAving
from the colony such a revenue as would be pro-
portional ta the expectations of the company. In
consequence of this order, the Count sailed for Eu-
rope with a fleet of 13 large ships, and near 3000
soldiers on board ; whilcL, in conformity with the
instructions he had received, and with the econo-
mical scheme of government to be pursued in fu-
ture, only 18 companies were left for the defence
of the whole of the Dutch settlements.

==[[Chap]]==. IV.

==[[After The Recal Of Count Maurice|After the recal of Count Maurice]]==, the govern-
ment of the Dutch possessions in [[Brasil|Brazil]] was be-
stowed on Hamel, a merchant of Amsterdam ;
Bassis, a goldsmith of Haerlem ; and Bullestraat,
a carpenter of Middleburgh. To this council the
decision of all commercial affairs was in future to
be confined.

==[[These successors to the illustrious warrior and
statesman who had hitherto ruled the colony]]==, were
men of unimpeachable integrity and solid good
sense, but with narrow minds, and wholly unac-
quainted with the science of government. Under
their administration the face of affairs became for a
short time changed ; every department of com-
merce seemed to be animated with new life and
vigour ; and in the year following, a greater quan-
tity of sugar and other commodities was sent home
to Europe than had ever been received in the
same space of time before.

1 . Impolitic conduct ojthe Dutch West India com,-\

