brazil;

— This dawn of prosperity proved however
altogether illusory. They had sent to Holland
the very produce of the lands which Count Mau-
rice had assigned for maintaining the fortifications
in a proper state of defence, by which means they
were suffered to fall into ruin. They even sold
the arms and ammunition, and granted passports
on the most easy terms to every soldier who was
desirous of returning to the mother country.
They compelled the Portuguese, who lived under
their jurisdiction, to liquidate their debts to the
company all at once, which rendered many of
them insolvent ; and in other cases they forced
the cultivators to resign the entire price of their
productions, till their demands should be fully sa-
tisfied. By this conduct the public strength was
annihilated, and the Portuguese began to entertain
hopes that they might free themselves from the
galling bondage of a foreign yoke. Tlie last sti-
pulation, which deprived them of those comforts
and conveniencies to which they had been accus-
tomed, above all stimulated them to attempt the
recovery of their just rights.

2. Conspiracy of Viera . — At the head of this
conspiracy was Juan Fernandez Viera, a Portu-
guese of obscure birth, who, from being a page to
one of the magistrates of Olinda, had risen to be
an agent, and afterwards an opulent merchant.
His inflexible integrity had gained him universal
esteem, and tlie generosity of his character had at-
tached to him many warm and sincere friends.
It was tlie intention of Viera and his associates to
put their designs in execution on the 24th of June
1645, in the midst of the capital of Pernambuco,
at an entertainment to be given at Viera’s house,
in honour of his marriage with one of the daugh-
ters of Antonio Cavalcante, who was himself a
warm adherent to the cause. To this festival were
ihvited most of the officers and principal people
in the service of the company, whom the conspi-
rators intended to seize, and then immediately at-
tack the people, who would be wholly unprepared
for their defence. The plot, however, was dis-
covered at the moment of its execution ; but such
was the consternation of the Dutch at this disco-
very, that Viera and his associates succeeded in
escaping into the neighbouring woods, where they
formed themselves into a body, and immediately
took up arms. Viera now assumed the character
of general and commander in chief. His name,
his virtues, and the popularity of his projects, soon
collected round him the [[Brasil|Brazil]]ians, the Portuguese
soldiers, and even the colonists. Assisted by Co-
lonel Diaz, with a few Portuguese troops, and the
Brazilian, Cameron, the idol of his people, with a

205

numerous body of natives, he fixed his head-
quarters at Pojug, a town between the Rcceifle
and cape St. Augustine ; so that lie commenced
the war in the very heart of the Dutch dominions.
Alarmed at these hostile proceedings, the council
issued a proclamation, jiromising pardon to all
those who would return to their duty, with the
exception of Viera, Cavalcante, and Aragousa.
They gave the command of a few ill-appointed
troops to Huys, on whom they conferred the title
of general ; and dispatched two captains to the
Portuguese viceroy, at the bay of Ail Saints, to
remonstrate against this infraction of the truce.

'J he viceroy received these gentlemen w ith all
the politeness and courtesy which their rank de-
manded, and replied to them, with much seeming
frankness, tliat he was unquestionably answerable
for the conduct of the inhabitants of that part of
[[Brasil|Brazil]] under the dominion of Portugal; and if they
had broken the truce, he would give the Dulch
every, satisfaction they could reasonably desire ;
but if the Portuguese settled in the Dutch territo-
ries had been induced by oppression or any other
cause to take up arms, he did not conceive himself
amenable for their conduct. Notwithstanding this
declaration, it is affirmed that he clandestinely en-
couraged those who had begun hostilities ; and
that even on the present occasion he had secretly
prevailed on Captain Hoogstrate, one of the gentle-
men charged with this negociation, to deliver up
the important post of St. Augustine, of which he
was the governor.

3. Admiral Bonavides arrives with a feet . —
While this negociation was going forward, Gene-
ral Huys, attacking Colonel Cameron, was de-
feated with the loss of 100 men. About the same
time Admiral Salvador Correa de Bonavides ap-
peared Avith a formidable fleet on the coast, on
which Admiral Lichthart, though he had with
him at the time only five men of war, offered him
battle. The Portuguese commander, however,
declined the combat, alleging that he had no or-
ders to act against the Dutch, but only to land a
body of men on his sovereign’s dominions. But
these troops were no sooner landed than they en-
tered the Dutch territories in a hostile manner,
making themselves masters of every place wliich
fell in their way ; on which General Huys was or-
dered by the council to retreat, but having waited
for an officer Avhom he had dispatched to bring off
some valuable effects, and escort a party of ladies
to a place of safety, he was surrounded by the
Portuguese, who made him and his Avhole army
prisoners.

4. Bonavides attacked and healen by Admiral^

