^14

==[[Britain|BRITAIN]]==.

[==[[Wager]]==, Monk, Seal, Pockcrekesko, Churchill,
Nelson, Hayes, New Severn, Albany, and Moose
rivers, all which empty into Hudson and James’s
bay from the w. and s. The mouths of all the
rivers are filled with shoals, except Churchill’s,
in which the largest ships may lie ; but 10 miles
higher the channel is obstructed by sand banks.
All the rivers, as far as they have been explored,
are full of rapids and cataracts, from 10 to 60 feet
perpendicular. Down these rivers the Indian
traders find a quick passage ; but their return is a
labour of many months. Copper-mine and McKen-
zie’s rivers fall into the N. sea. As far inland as
the Hudson’s bay company have settlements, which
is 600 miles to the zs. fort of Churchill, at a place
called Hudson’s house, lat. 53°. long. 106° 27' w.
from London, is flat country : nor is it known how
far to thee, the great chain, seen by navigators
from the Pacific ocean, branches oft'. From
Moose river, or the bottom of the bay, to cape
Churchill, the land is flat, marshy, and wooded
with pines, birch, larch, and willows. From cape
Churchill to Wager's river the coasts are high
and rocky to the very sea, and woodless, except
the moulhs of Pockerekesko and Seal rivers. The
hills on their back arc naked, nor are there any
trees for a great distance inland. The e. coast
is barren, past the efforts of cultivation. The
surface is every where uneven, and covered with
masses of stone of an amazing size. It is a
country of fruitless valleys and frightful mountains,
some of an astonishing height. The valleys are
full of lakes, formed not of springs, but rain and
snow, so chilly as to be productive of a few small
trout only. I he mountains have here and there a
blighted shrub, or a little moss. The valleys arc
full of crooked stinted trees, pines, fir, birch, cind
cedars, or rather a species of the juniper. In lat.
60°, on this coast, vegetation ceases. The whole
shore, like that on the w. is faced with islands at
some distance from land. The laudable zeal of the
Moravian clergy induced them, in the year 1752,
to send missionaries from Greenland to this coun-
try. They fixed on Nesbit’s harbour for their set-
tlement ; but of the first party, some of them were
killed, and the others driven away. In 1764, un-
der the protection of the British government,
another attempt was made. The missionaries were
well received by the Esquimaux, and the mission
goes on with success. The knowledge of these
n. seas and countries was owing to a project
started in England for tiie discovery of a n. w.
passage to China and the E. Indies, as early as
the year 1576 : since then it has been frequently
dropped and as often revived, but never yet com-

pleted. Frobisher, about the year 1576, dised-
vered the main of New Britain, or Terra de La-
brador, and those straits to which he has given
his name. In 1585, John Davis sailed from
Portsmouth, and viewed that and the more n.
coasts, but he seems uever to have entered the bay.
Hudson made three voyages on the same adventure,
the first in 1607, the second in 1608, and his third
and last in 1610. This bold and judicious navi-
gator entered the straits that lead into the bay
known by his name, coasted a great part of it, and
penetrated to eighty degrees and a half into the
heart of the frozen zone, H is ardour for the dis-
covery not being abated by the difficulties he strug-
gled with in this empire of winter, and world of
frost and snow, he staid here until the ensuing
spring, and prepared, in the beginning of 1611,.
to pursue his discoveries ; but his crew, who suf-
fered equal hardships, without the same spirit to
support them, mutinied, seized upon him and
seven of those who were most faithful to him, and
committed them to the fury of the icy seas in an
open boat. Hudson and his companions were ei-
ther swallowed up by the waves, or, gaining the
inhospitable coast, were destroyed by the savages ;
but the ship and the rest of the men returned home.
Though the adventurers failed in the original pur-
pose for which they navigated Hudson’s bay, yet
the project, even in its failure, has been of great
advantage to England. The vast countries which
surround Hudson’s bay abound with animals,
whose fur and skins are excellent. In 1670, a
charter was granted to the Hudson’s bay company,
which does not consist of above nine or ten per-
sons, for the exclusive trade of this bay, and
they have acted under it ever since, with great be-
nefit to the individuals who compose the company,
though comparatively with little advantage to Bri-
tain. The company employ four ships and ISO sea-
men. They have several forts, viz. Prince of
Wales fort, Churchill river. Nelson, New Severn,
Albany, on the w. side of the bay, and are gar-
risoned by 186 men. The French, in May 1782,
took and destroyed these forts, and the settlements.
See. said to amount to the value of 500,000/.
They export commodities to the value of 16,000/.
and carry home returns to the value of 29, .340/.
which yield to the revenue 3734/. This includes
the fishery in Hudson’s bay. The only attempt to
trade to that part which is called Labrador, has
been directed towards the fishery. The annual
produce of the fishery amounts to upwards
of 49,000/. See Esquimaux and Canada.
The whole of the settlements in New Bri-
tain, including such as have been mentioned,]

