==[[Buenos Ayres|BUENOS AYRES]]==.

221

and one abounding in stagnant waters ; but it lias
lavadero's or washing places of gold, and its cli-
mate abounds in various productions.

==[[Buenas Cos Tumbkes|BUENAS CosTUMBKES]]==, Nuestra Senora
BEE, a settlement of the province and government
of Tucuman, sit uate on the shore of theriver Salado.

==[[Buenos Ayres|BUENOS Ayres]]==, a province and govern-
ment of [[Peru]], afterwards erected into a viceroyalty
in 1777 ; bounded n. by the province of [[Para]]-
guay, w. by that of Tucuman and the lands of
Gran Chaco ; on the s. it extends as far as the
straits of Magellan, comprehending a large part of
the territory lying of the cordillera ; and on the
e. by the sea. This province formerly apper-
tained to that of Paraguay, until the year 1621,
when it was formed into a separate government,
taking the name of the Rio de la Plata ; its first
governor having been Don Diego de Gongora. It
was discovered iti 1506 by the pilot Juan Diez de
Solis. The temperature is for the most part mild,
and the soil uncomriionly fertile ; producing in
abundance wheat, seeds, herbs, and fruits, especially
peaches, which are extremely delicious. There
are such quantities of horned cattle, that their flesh
is considered a thing of no value ; and it is custo-
mary to kill them merely for their hides, these
forming a principal branch of commerce. Horses
also are in such quantities as to cost nothing more
than the trouble of catching them. There is in
this province a great variety of rare animals and
exquisitely fine birds : among the former may be
reckoned tigers, larger than any found elsewhere
in America : the ant-eater, an animal subsisting
entirely upon ants, and which, to get at these
insects, is provided with a very long and pointed
snout, and the chinchilla, about the size of a lap-
dog, covered with a wool of a light grey colour, and
finer than the best silk. This province is, at the
present day, very rich and flourishing, for since
the galleons have ceased going to Tierra Firrne,
this has become the port for all the commerce of
the several provinces of Peru. This commerce is
conducted on land by means of small waggons
drawn by oxen ; large companies bring formed
for liie better defending themselves against the at-
tacks of the infidel Indians, who inhabit the ex-
tensive llanos or plains called pampas, which are
watered by several rivers. All of these rivers are tri-
butary to the river of La Plata, one of the four largest
rivers in all America. The capital is the city of
La Trinidad de Buenos Ayres, founded on the
shore of the river La Plata by Don Pedro de
Mendoza. In the year 1535, it was twice aban-
doned for a time, owing to the invasions of the in-
fidel Indians, the Jarres, and the Charruas, when so

great was the misery experienced by the inhabitants
for want of necessary supplies, that they were re-
duced to the necessity of eating human flesh. It
was first restored by the licentiate Vaca de Castro,
governor of [[Peru]], in the year 1542 ; and a second
time in 1581, when it was settled, at the command
of Philip II. by Don Juan Ortiz de Zarate, go-
vernor of Paraguay, to the Jurisdiction of which it
then belonged. Its situation is very beautiful, for
on the n. side, looking towards the river, there is,
to all appearance, a complete sea, witliont a pos-
sibility of discerning the opposite shore, whilst the
country around it is delightiul, consisting of ex-
tensive fields covered with perpetual verdure, and
bedecked with an infinite number of country houses
and villas, which form an agreeable retreat for the
inhabitants. The temperature is healthy, and the
air pure : The winter is fresh and healthy, and com-
mences in June. The rains, which are abundant, are
accompanied with such violent storms of lightning
and thunder, that nothing but a familiarity with
them can allay the terror they are calculated to in-
spire. The heat of the sun in the summer is
moderated by the breezes which rise at mid-day.
It is very fruitful, and abounds in all the produc-
tions which convenience or luxury can require.
The fruit most common is the peach, the timber
of which serves for fuel for the kitchens and ovens,
and this article is sometimes brought from a dis-
tance of 2 to 300 leagues. Vines were once culti-
vated here. It is the head of the archbishopric of
Charcas, erected in 1620. Its first bisliop was
D. Fr. Pedro de Carranza, of the order of the
Carmen. It was the residence of the tribunal of
the royal audience, founded in 1663; and which
having been abolished a short time after, was re-
established in 1783. The buildings, although of
brick, may vie with any of Europe. It has a
good cathedral church and four parishes, which
are, La Concepcion, San Nicolas, Monserrat, and
La Piedad ; six convents, two of Franciscans, one
of the Observers, and another of the Recolects or
Strict Observers, another of St. Dominic, another of
La Merced, and a house of entertainment of Beth-
lemites ; two monasteries of Nuns, one of Capu-
chins, and the other of St. Catharine ; a house for
female orphans, and another for the correction of
women ; a college ; and it once had two others,
belonging to the Jesuits. It has a beautiful
market-place, which is improved and *set off by
Ihe houses of the city ; and on the side towards
the river is a fort, in which the governor and pub-
lic officers reside : this is well defended by artil-
lery, and by 24 militia companies of cavalry, each
company consisting of 50 men; also by 9 com-

