244 C A L ^

government of [[Popayaii]] in the kingdom of
Quito.

==[[Calibogie River And Sound|CALIBOGIE River and Sound]]==, on the coast of
S. Carolina, from the outlet of May and New
rivers.

==[[Calidonia|CALIDONIA]]==, a capacious, convenient, and se-
cure port of the province of [[Darien]], and kingdom
of Tierra Firine, on the coast of the N. sea. Here
the Scotch founded a colony and establisliment,
but were dislodged by order of the king, by the
Colonel Don Juan Diaz Pimienta, governor of
Cartagena, in the year 1699. The ruins are yet to
be seen of the above colony ; as also of a castle.
The French afterwards established themselves here
in 1764, but were put to death by the Indians, who
immediately admitted the English, who possess a
small compact settlement, called New Edinburgh.
In an uneven ground towards the s. there grows a
small plant of two long narrow leaves, each of
them of a distinct green colour. Wiien taken to-
gether, they produce no effect ; but being se-
parated, that of the lighter colour is a most active
and efficacious poison, and produces instant death,
though the other is always an antidote. Of this
herb the Indians make use, applying the fatal secret
to their purposes of vengeance.

==[[California|CALIFORNIA]]==, Old, is an extensive peninsula
of N. America, lying between the tropic of Cancer
and the 33° n. lat. ; washed on the e. by a gulf
of the same name, and on the w. by the Pacific
ocean, or great S. sea ; lying within the three capes
or limits of cape St. Lucas, the river Colorado and
cape Blanco dc San Sebastian, which is called its
te. limit. The gulf which washes it on the
e. called the gulf of California, is an arm of the
Pacific ocean, intercepted between cape Corrientes
on the one side, and cape St. Lucas on the other ;
that is, between Mexico or New Spain on the ??. e.
and that of California on the to. It is nearly SOO
leagues in length from the cape of San Lucas to
the last reduced territory towards the n. Its width
is various, for, being at the aforementioned extre-
mity, 10 leagues, it continues increasing to 20, SO,
and 40 leagues from one sea to the other. The cli-
mate is various, according to the different heights
of the land ; but for the most part it is excessively
hot. The ground is uneven, rough, and barren,
full of ridges of mountains, stony and sandy places;
lacking moisture, but abounding in mules, horses,
and neat cattle, and all sorts of swine, goats, and
sheep, which have multiplied in the same propor-
tion as the dogs and cats introduced by the Spa-
niards. There is found in the woods a kind of ani-
mal, which, in the language of the country, is called
tqye, about the size of a calf of a year and an half

==[[Cal|CAL]]==

old, and very much resembling one ; its head and
skin being like to those of a deer, its horns very
thick, and similar to those of a ram: its hoof is
large, round, and cleft like that of an ox ; the tail is
small, and the flesh is well tasted and delicate.
There is also another animal here very like a sheep,
although somewhat larger ; of these there are black
and w hite, bearing quantities of wool very easy to
be spun, and their tlesh is very delicate. Here are
also found deer, hares, rabbits, berrertdos, and
coyotes, a species ot fox, and called by this name in
Nueva Espaila.^ Sometimes leopards have been
seen here, and a few years since some Indians
killed a wolf, an animal which had never belbre
been known in these parts. In the serrama, or
mountainous parts, tliere are wild hogs, cats, tigers,
and a species of beaver. Tliis country abounds in
reptiles, as vipers, snakes of different sorts, scor-
pions, spiders, ants, lizards, and tarantulas ; but it
is free from bugs, fleas, and niguas. Of birds, it
produces turtle-doves, herons, quails, pheasants,
partridges, geese, ducks, wild ducks, ring-doves,
and some birds of prey, as sparrow-hawks, vul-
tures, falcons, horned ow ls, eagles, and also jack-
daws, those too which they call zopilotes in Nueva
Espana, and others which they call auras, (or West
Indian crow's), screech-owls, and different birds
not known in any other parts. This country is ex-
tremely barren of wood ; and only towards the-
cape of Sanducas, where the country is most level,
fertile, and temperate, are there any trees to be
found. Here, however, we have that peculiar tree
called the piiajaia, the branches of which are
fluted, and grow up straight from its trunk, bear-
ing no leaf; on the same branch hangs the fruit,
having the rind covered with prickles; so that it
appears to some to be a species of the frmr/M (thistle
plant), although the fruit is whiter and more deli-
cate : some produce fruit of a reddish, and some of
a yellow tint, which is extremely well flavoured,
and is either sweet, or a little acidulous ; the same
is esteemed an excellent medicine in the venereal
disease. From the fruit trees aromatic gums are
gathered in such abundance that they are mixed
with grease for careening the bottoms of ships ;
and from the crude root of the mezcales they com-
pose the drink so called. TTiey have a sort of
aloes, from strips of which they make nets ; and
from other herbs, in a matiner which is truly curi-
ous, they manufacture bowls and cruets to eat and
drink out of. The Indians who inhabit the river
Colorado, fabricate from the same herbs troughs
or trays, which they call coritas, so large as to con-
tain two hundred weight of maize. In them they
carry by water fruits and different articles, from one

