==[[California|CALIFORNIA]]==.

24!y

shore to another. They have besides the alimen-
tary herb called yucas^ the Spanish potatoe, and
i\xe gicamas. — This country produces also olives,
figs, vines, wheat, maize, French beans, water-
melons, melons, gourds, chickpeas, and all kinds
of garden herbs, for which it is indebted to the Je-
suits, who first planted them here. No mines have
been discovered here ; but there are sufficient in-
dications of the existence of every sort of metal.
The quantity of fish and shell fish found on its
coasts is incredible ; it is of every description, and
among others, the profusion of pilchards is most
astonishing ; these being at certain seasons left in
shoals dry upon the beach. W hales are also found
here, and on the exterior coast siiells of the most
beautiful lustre may be collected ; some of these
being more brilliant than the finest mother of pearl,
and covered with a blue similar to that of the most
delicate lapis lazuli. Nor are pearls themselves to
be found in less abundance. It is true that the
Indian formerly used to throw the shell bearing
this precious treasure into the fire, in order that he
might extract the oyster for his food ; but now, it
appears, he has learned to hold it indue estimation,
instructed by the Europeans. The pearl fisheries
in these parts are much favoured by tiie shallowness
of the water. This country was discovered in the
year 1526 by the celebrcted Hcrnan Cortfe, as he
was endeavouring to find a passage from the N.
to the S. sea. Its conquest from that time had
often been attempted, but without effect, until the
year 1679, when, pursuant to the king’s direction,
it was invaded by Admiral Don Isidro Otondo, and
was setfled by the missionaries of the extinguished
order of the Jesuits, under the direction of the Fa-
ther Eusebio Francisco Kino, who first began to
bring the infidel Indians under subjection. Many
changes and conquests have since taken place here,
under different officers appointed on the several
occasions ; the relation of which would however,
perhaps unnecessarily, dilate this article beyond ifs
proper limits. [The peninsula of Old California,
which equals England in extent of territory, and
does not contain the populaliou of the small towns
of Ipswicli or Deptford, lies under the same parallel
with Bengal and the Canary islands. The sky is
constantly serene and of a deep blue, and without
a cloud ; and should any clouds appear for a mo-
ment at the setting of the sun, they display the
most beautiful -shades of violet, purple, and green.
All those who had ever been in Old California, pre-
served the recollection of the extraordinary beauty
of this phenomenon, which depends on a particular
state of the vesicular vapour and the purity of the
air in these climates. No where could an astrono-

mer find a more delightful abode than at Cumana,
Coro, the island of [[Margerita]], and the coast of
Calitbrnia. But unfortunately in this peninsula
the sky is more beautiful than the earth. The soil
is sandy and arid, like the shores of Provence ;
vegetation is at a stand ; and rain is very unfre-
quent. A chain of mountains runs through the
centre of the peninsula, of which the most elevated,
the Cerro de la Gigauta, is from 1400 to 1500
metres (from 4592 to 4920 feet) in height,
and ajrpears of volcanic origin. This cordillera
is inhabited by animals, the most peculiar of which
have been already enumerated. At the foot of the
mountains of California we discover only sand, or
a stony stratum, on whicli cylindrical cacti (orga-
nos del tuna!) slioot up to extraordinary Jieights.
We find few springs ; and through a particular
fatality, it is remarked that the rock is naked where
the water springs up, while there is norvater where
the rock is covered with vegetable eartli. Where-
ever springs aiid earth happen to be together, the
fertility of the soil is immense. It was in these
points, of which the number is far from great, that
the Jesuits established their first missions. The
maize, the jafropha, and the dioscoren, vegetate
vigorously ; and the vine yields an excellent grape,
of which the wine resembles that of the Canary
islands. In genei-al, however. Old Calitbrnia, on
account of the arid nature of the soil, and the want
of water and vegetable earth in the interior of the
country, will never be able to maintain a great po-
pulation any more than the n. part of SoJiora,
which is almost equally dry and sandy. Of all
the natural productions of California the pearls
have, sirree tiie 16th century, been the chief attrac-
tion to navigators for visiting the coast of this de-
sert country. They abound particularly in the
s. part of the peninsula. Since the cessation
of the pearl fishery near the island of Margerita,
opposite the coast of [[Araya]], the gulfs of Panama
and Califoniia are the only quarters in the Spanish
colonies which supply pearls for the commerce of
Europe. Those of California are of a very beauti-
ful water and large ; but they are frequently of an
irregular figure, disagreeable to the eye. The shell
which produces the ])carl is particularly to be
found in the bay of Ceralvo, and round the islands
of Santa Cruz and San Jose. The most valuable
pearls in the possession of the court of Spain were
found in 1615 and 1665, in the expeditions of Juan
Yturbi and Bernal de Pinadero. During the stay
of the Visitador Galvez in California, in 1768 and
1769, a private soldier in the presidio of Loreto,
Jnan Ocio, was made rich in a short time by pearl
fishing on the coast of Ceralvo. Since that period]

==[[I]]==

