==[[California|CALIFORNIA]]==.


(he numbers of pearls of California brought annually
to market is almost reduced to nothing. The In-
dians and Negroes, who follow the severe occupa-
tion of divers, are so poorly paid by the whites,
that the fishery is considered as abandoned. This
branch of industry languishes from the same causes
which in South America have raised the price of
the [[Peru]]vian sheep-skins, the caoutchouc, and the
febrifugal bark of the quinquina. In California
the Jesuits obtained a complete victory over the
soldiery posted in the 'presidios. The court decided
by a cedilla real, that all (he detachment of Loreto,
even the captain, should be under the command of
the fatlier at the head of the missions. The interest-
ing voyages of three Jesuits, Lusebius Kiihn,
Maria Salvatierra, and Juan Uguarte, brought us
acquainted with the physical situation of the coun-
try. The viilai'e of Loreto had been already
founded, under the name of Presidio de San Dio-
nisio, in 1697. Dnder the reign of Philip V. espe-
cially after the year 1744, the Spanish establish-
ments in Californa became very considerable. The
Jesuits displayed there that commercial industry
and that activity to which they are indebted for so
many successes, and which have exposed (hem to
so many calumnies in both Indies. In a very few
years they built 16 villages in the interior of the
peninsula. Since their expulsion in 1767, Cali-
fornia has been confided to the Dominican monks of
the city of Mexico ; and it appears that they have
not been so successful in their establishments of Old
California, as the Franciscans have been on the
coasts of New California. The natives of the pen-
insula who do not live in the missions, are of all sa-
vages, perhaps, the nearest to what has been called
the state of nature. They pass whole days stretched
out on their bellies on the sand, when it is heated
by the reverberation of the solar rays. Like se-
veral tribes of tlte Orinoco, they entertain a great
horror for clothing. “ A monkej' dressed up does
not appear so ridiculous to the common people in
Europe,” says Father Venegas, as a man in
clothes appears to the Indians of California.” Not-
withstanding this state of apparent stupidity, the
first missionaries distinguished difterent religious
sects among the natives. Three divinities, who
carried on a war of extermination against each
other, were objects of terror among three of the
tribes of California. ThePericues dreaded the power
of Niparaya, and the Menquis and the Fehities
the power of Wactipuran and Sumongo. Accord-
ing to the information obtained from the monks
who now govern the two Californias, the popu-
lation of Old California has diminished to such a
d(^ree within the last thirty years, that there are not

more than from 4 to 5000 native cultivators
( Tndios reducidos) in tlie villages of the missions.
The number of these missions is also reduced to
16. The savages amount to only 4000, and it is
observed that those inhabiting the «. of California
are somewhat more gentle and civilized than the
natives of the 5. division. The principal villages
of this province are Loreto, Santa Ana, and San
( Nueta California). It is a long and narrow ex-
Joseph.

==[[The Part Of The Coast Of The Great Ocean Which
Extends From The Isthmus Of Old California|The part of the coast of the great ocean which
extends from the isthmus of Old California]]==,
or from the bay of Todos los Santos (\. from (he
port of San Diego) to cape Mendocino, bears on
the Spanish maps the name of New California
tent of country, in which for these 40 years the
Mexican government lias been establishing mis-
sions and military posts. No village or farm is to
be found n. of the port of St. Francis, which is
more than 78 leagues distant from cape Mendo-
cino. The province of [[New]] California in its present
state is only 197 leagues in length, and from nine
to ten in breadth. The city of Mexico is the same
distance in a straight line from Philadelphia as from
Monterey, which is the chief place of the mis-
sions of New California, and of which the lati-
tude is the same within a few minutes with that of
Cadiz. At the time of the expedition of M. Galvez,
military detachments came from Loreto to the port
of San Diego. I'he letter -post still goes from this
port along the n. w. coast to San Francisco. This
last establishment, the most n. of all the Spa-
nish possessions of the new continent, is almost
under the same parallel with the small town of Taos
in New Mexico. It is not more than SOO leagues
distant from it ; and though Father Escalante, in
his apostolical excursions in 1777, advanced along
the w. bank of the river Zaguananas towards the
mountains De los Guacaros, no traveller has yet
come from New Mexico to the coast of [[New]] Ca-
lifornia,

==[[From The Example Of The English Maps|From the example of the English maps]]==, several
geographers give the name of New Albion to New
California. This denomination is founded on the
inaccurate opinion of the navigator Drake, who
first discovered, in 1578, the n. w. coast of [[Ame]]-
rica between the S8° and the 48° of latitude. The
celebrated voyage of §ebastian Viscaino is no
doubt 24 years posterior to the discoveries of
Francis Drake ; but Knox and other historians
seem to forget that Cabrillo had already examined,
in 1542, the coast of New California to the parallel
of 43°, (lie boundary of his navigation, as we may
see from a comparison of the old observations of
latitude with those taken in our own days. AI-]

