2oS

==[[Canada|CANADA]]==.

[==[[Upper Canada Includes All The Territory To The W|Upper Canada includes all the territory to the w]]==.
and s. of the said line, to the utmost extent of the
country known by the name of Canada.

3. Climate . — Winter continues with such seve-
rity from December to April, as that the largest
rivers are frozen over, and the snow lies commonly
from four to six feet deep during the winter. But
the air is so serene and clear, and the inhabitants so
well defended against the cold, that this season is
neither unhealthy nor unpleasant. The spring
opens suddenly, and vegetation is surprisingly
rapid. The summer is delightful, except that a part
of it is extremely hot. The climate of Lower Ca-
nada is liable to violent extremes of heat and cold ;
the thermometer is sometimes up to 103° of Fahren-
heit in summer, and in winter 36° below
0. These extremes do not, however, last above
two or three days at a time. The averag-e of sum-
mer heat is, in general, from 75° to 80°, and
t he mean of the cold in winter about 0. It is the
general opinion of the inhabitants that the winters
are milder, and that less snow falls now than for-
merly ; that the summers are also hotter. This
might be easily accounted for by -the improved
state of the country. The clearing ofthe woods,
and cultivation of the lands, together Avith the in-
creased population, must naturally have a consi-
derable effect upon the climate. It has been ob-
served by some of the religious orders who have
been in the practice of keeping meteorological
journals, that the winters are as hard as they were
formerly, though somewhat shorter, and the sum-
mers rather longer, but not hotter than they used
to be. The winters sometimes differ so materially
from each other, as well as the summers, that no
accurate estimate can be formed, sufficient to as-
certain whether the changes that take place, are
occasioned by any increase or diminution ofthe se-
verity of the climate. It is possible that a very
hot summer, by heating the soil beyond the usual
depth, can occasion the mildness ofthe subsequent
Avinter. The Canadians feel the cold more than
Europeans on their first arrival. The constant use
of stoves renders them very little better than hot-
house plants during Avinter, and in summer they are
exposed to a burning sun. These things do not
affect the European constitution for the first two or
three years, but afterwards it becomes as sensible
to tJ)e heat and cold as that of the Canadians. It
may astonish those Avho have heard such dreadful
accounts of a Canadian Avinter, but the people of
Great Britain suffer more from the cold than the
people of Canada, or at least they are more exposed
to it ; for they seldom make any material alteration

in their dress, either summer or wintet ; and&gt; with
their open fire-places, they are burning on one sidcj
and freezing on the other. Thisj however, hardens
the constitution of an Englishman, while the stoves
and warm clothing of Canada, which often heat
the body beyond Avhat the climate requiresj weaken
and debilitate the frames of those Avho reside in that
country. A proper attention, hoAvever, to heat and
cold, is all that is requisite for an European to en-
joy the most perfect health in Lower Canada. The
months of March and April are in general very hot,
and the sun then begins to have great power, Avhich
is considerably heightened by the reflection ofthe
snow and ice. The inhabitants are more tanned by
the reflection of the snoAv in these months, than
they are at any other season of the year by the sun.
It is likewise so very hurtful to the eyes, that they
are obliged to Avear shades of green gauze fastened
to their hats. The snow begins to melt early in
April, and by the second or third Aveek it is gene-
rally all gone ; during this period both walking in
toAvn, and travelling in the country, are very incon-
venient. The streets of Quebec are inundated with
snoAv-water, and the kennels have the appearance
and sound of so many little rapids. The ice in the
river is seldom totally gone before the first week in
May. The breaking up of the ice in the vicinity
of Quebec is not attended with any remarkable
noise or appearance ; but at Montreal, and the
upper parts of the river, where it is frozen quite
across, it has a grand appearance, and breaks up
with loud reports. The lake ice comes down in
prodigious quantities for several days, bringing
Avith it. the roots and branches of trees which it
tears from the islands and shores in its progress.
Until this has passed, none of the river vessels can
leave Quebec for Montreal. Vessels, however,
sometimes arrive from Europe in the midst of it,
as was the case in 1807. The first vessel that ar-
rived from Europe in 1808, came up to Quebec on
the 19th of April, nine days earlier than the pre-
ceding year. The river, however Avas full of ice,
which floated with the tide in large masses. The
vessel was forced ashore on the island a few days
before it got up to the town, and Avas near being
lost. The progress of vegetation, as soon as the
Avinter is over, is exceedingly rapid. The trees
obtain their verdant foliage in less than three
Aveeks ; the fields, Avhich the autumn before were
apparently burnt up, are now adorned with the
richest verdure. Spring can scarcely be said to
exist before summer is at hand. Tiie productions
of the field and the garden are brought in (juick
succession to the markets ; and fresh meat, poultry,]

