==[[Canada|CANADA]]==.

2(y0

[agitated by some convulsion of nature, which must
have shaken the mountain to its very foundation.
Possibly it might have lost its horizontal direction
by tlieeart!)quake of 1663. In the unpaved streets
of Quebec this slaty stone strikes out in corners at
the surface, and injures the shoes extremely. The
narrow crevices between the shivers, which are very
thin, are conamonly filled with a fibrous white
gypsum ; the larger cracks are in particular parts
of the rock filled up with transparent quartz crys-
tals, the largest of whicli are about two inches in
length, and three or four in circumference; but in
general they are extremely small, and many resem-
ble well cut polished diamonds. A sort of black or
grey spar is also frequently met with in the rock.
Most of the old houses are built of the lime slate,
but it shivers into thin pieces on the outside after
being exposed to the air for some time ; the ma-
sons, however, have a particular manner of placing
the pieces of stone, which prevents them from
cracking, except a little on the outside. The new
public buildings, fortifications, and many of the
private houses belonging to the gentry at Quebec,
have of late years been built with the grey rock
stone, which has a light and handsome appearance,
and is of a more durable nature. The mountains
and high lands in the vicinity of Quebec, and for
many miles below, consist of different species of the
lime slate, and of the grey rock or lime stone, more
or less impregnated with grey and black glimmer
and quartz, fibrous gypsum and pierre au calu-
met. The latter has received its name from the
French, who, as well as the Indians, frequently use
it for the heads of their calumets or tobacco pipes.
It is a lime stone of rather a soft though compact
texture, and may be cut with a knife. Iron, cop-
per, and lead ore, are found in different parts of
Lower Canada, though not to any very great ex-
tent. Iron is most abundaTif, and has been disco-
vered chiefly on the n. side of the St. Lawrence,
about Batiscan and Three Rivers. It was formerly
believed tliut a silver mine existed near St. Paul’s
bay, about 54 miles below Quebec, on thew. shore,
several pieces of ore having been discovered, which
resembled that metal : it has since been found to
consist onlyof lead, which lies in veins in a moun-
tain of grey rock stone. No very important dis-
coveries have hitherto been made in the mineral
world of Lower Canada ; though in that, as well
as in every other branch of natural history, there is
sufficient m that country to occupy the attention of
the philosopher. Some mineral springs have been
discovered in diffi'rent parts of the province; one
or two were found in the neighbourhood of Three
Rivers, but are now either lost or remain unnoticed.

==[[Another Was Discovered In The Suburb Of St|Another was discovered in the suburb of St]]==. John,
just without the walls of Quebec ; this has been
kept open for several years, and belongs to an old
French woman, who has a small house adjoining
it. Many of the gentry walk out to this house in
the summer about six o’clock in the morning, and
drink the waters, which are reckoned extremely
salubrious ; they are tasteless, but it is necessary
to hold your nose when you drink them, for they
have a very unpleasant sulphureous smell. Several
excellent springs of fresh water gush out of various
parts of the rock. The inhabitants, however,
chiefly use the river water, though it is not reckoned
very wholesome in winter. The water is conveyed
in barrels from the river to all parts of the upper
and lower towns by the carters, who charge six-
pence or eightpence per barrel according to the dis-
tance. In different parts of the country, and par-
ticularly the vicinity of Quebec, are to be found
rock stones of various shapes and sizes, lying scat-
tered in the fields, meadows, and plains. Some of
them measure nine or ten feet in circumference, and
from three to four feet high ; and some even have
been met with considerably larger. They are
mostly of a grey colour, round-shaped, and of a
very close and hard substance, impregnated with
black, red, and white glimmer and spar. They
lie upon the soil, having no connection with any
rock or bed of stone ; and a person cannot view
them without asking himself the question, how, and
in Avhat manner, such large masses of stone came
there ? It was upon one of these stones that General
Wolfe is said to have breathed his last. On the
whole, few natural curiosities are to be found in
Lower Canada, except rapids, cascades, and falls.
Amongthe latter, those of Saguenay, Montmorency,
and Chaudiere, are the chief; an account of which
may be seen under their proper articles. There
are two smaller rapids near Montreal, one about
a mile and a half below thecity, andthe other about
five miles above : the latter is called Sault St.
Louis, or the Fall of St. Louis ; but it is a mere
rapid, similar to those of the Richlieu, except that
the river at St. Louis is divided into channels by
two or three small islands, v/liich form, with the
rapidity of the agitated stream, a very picturesque
and beautiful view. The cascades, near the boun-
dary line between Upper and Lower Canada, are
of a different description to the rapids of Richlieu,
St. Louis, &c. and seem to present an almost in-
superable bar to the navigation ol the river between
the two provinces: this obstacle is however in
some measure removed by the construction of locks
and canals on the w. shore, through which
the batteaux and small vessels pass. The cascades]

