==[[Canada|CANADA]]==.

26 i

[are about two miles in length, and arc as violently
agitated in the calmest weather, as the ocean is in a
gale of wind. The waters appear as if they rushed
into an iinraense gulf, and were boiled up again by
some subterranean fire. Rafts of timber, and large
scows, laden with barrels of flour, pot-ash, and pro-
visions, pass through these tremendous rapids every
year with safety ; but smaller vessels cannot attempt
it without imminent danger. About three miles
above the cascades, are the rapids of the Cedars ;
they are less violent than the former, but are infi-
nitely more dangerous than the Richlieu and St.
Louis ; yet the Canadians and Indians are so very
expert in the management of their canoes and
batteaux, that an accident very rarely happens in
passing any of the rapids.

4. Soil and Productions . — Though the climatebe
cold, and the winter long and tedious, the soil is
in general very good, and in many parts both plea-
sant and fertile, producing wheat, barley, rye, with
many other sorts of grain, fruits, and vegetables ;
tobacco, in particular, thrives well, and is much
cultivated. The isle of Orleans near Quebec, and
the lands upon the river St, LaAvrence, and other
rivers, are remarkable for the richness of the soil.
The meadow grounds in Canada, which are well
watered, yield excellent grass, and feed great num-
bers of great and small cattle. Within the last 20
years, great quantities of wheat have been raised
in Canada, and exported to Great Britain. The
temporary scarcity experienced in England, at
certain periods, increased the demand for that
article, and encouraged the Canadians to cultivate it
with more spirit than, till then, they had been ac-
customed to. The fruit of Canada is not remark-
able either for goodness or cheapness, except straw-
berries and raspberries, Avhich are brought to
market in great abundance d uring the season. They
are gathered on the plains at the back of Quebec,
and in the neighbouring woods, Avhere they grow
upon the ground, or among the shrubs, in wild
luxuriance. The poor Canadians send their chil-
dren to gatlier them, and afterwards sell them to
the inhabitants at a moderate price. It is an
agreeable sight to view the fields covered Avith
straAvberries in blossom or ripe, and few per-
sons keep them in gardens. The raspberry bushes
are inter nangled with the underwood of the forests,
and afford an agreeable treat to those avIio are fond
of rambling in the Avoods. That pleasure is, how-
ever, more than counterbalanced by the musquitos
and sand-flies, which never fail, for three or four
months in the summer, to annoy those who ven-
ture to penetrate their abode. Apples and pears
are procured from Montreal, Avhere they groAv in

more abundance and in greater perfection than in
any other part of Lower Canada. They are sold
tor much the same price as in England. The
apple Avhich is most prized is Avhat they call the
pomme gris, a small light-brown apple somewhat
resembling the russetin in appearance. Many per-
sons say, that it is superior to any English apple.
Bread is not cheap in Canada, and generally of
very indifferent quality, though several Scotch
bakers have emigrated to that country. They
complain of the Avant of yeast at certain seasons ;
their bad bread is perhaps oftener occasioned by
the indifferent flour which they purchase of the
Habitans in the market-place at a low price, and
Avhich they mix Avith the better sort of flour sup-
plied from the mills of Colonel Caldwell, Messrs.
Coltman, and others. The soil of Lower Canada
is composed of great varieties, and is more or less
fertile as it approaches to the n. or s. The high
lands, Avith good management, would yield very
tolerable crops, but the Canadians are miserable
farmers. They seldom or never manure their
land, and plough so very slight and careless, that
they continue year after year to turn over the same
clods which lie at the surface, Avithout penetrating
an inch deeper into the soil. Hence their grounds
become exhausted, overrun with Aveeds, and yield
but very scanty crojis. From Quebec, the capi-
tal, to Montreal, Avhich is about 170 miles, in sail-
ing up the river St. Lawrence, the eye is enter-
tained with beautiful landscapes, the banks being
in many places very bold and steep, and shaded
with lofty trees. The farms lie pretty close all the
Avay ; several gentlemen’s houses, neatly built, sheAV
themselves at intervals, and there is all the appear-
ance of a flourishing colony ; but Ihere are few
towns or villages. Many beautiful islands are in-
terspersed in the channel of the river, which have
an agreeable effect upon the eye. For further
account of the productions of this country, see
Quebec.

5. Peligion . — When Canada surrendered to the
English, the free exercise of the Roman Catholic
religion was stipulated fur, and granted. Its mi-
nisters Avere also to be protected and supported as
they had formerly been ; the Jesuits and Recol-
lets only excepted, Avhose orders Avere to remain
as they then were, Avithout receiving in future any
augmentation of their numbers. While there ex-
isted an individual of their order, the revenues
and property belonging to it were to be at his
disposal ; but at his death they reverted to the
king, and the order became extinct. Of the three
religious male orders at that time in existence, the
priests alone were allowed to increase their num-j|

