262

==[[Canada|CANADA]]==.

[bers, and to officiate in every respect as they had
been accustomed to under the French government.
The female orders being charitable institutions,
and beneficial to the colony, were also allowed to
exist, and were permitted to fill up their vacancies
and increase their establisliments as they had for-
merly done. They were to be protected in their
persons and property, upon the same footing as
under the French government. As many as about
nine-tenths of the inhabitants of these provinces are
Roman Catholics, who enjoy, under the present
government, the same provision, rights, and pri-
vileges, as were granted them in 1774, by the act
of the 14th of George 111. The rest of the people
are Episcopalians, Presbyterians, and a few of al-
most all the diflferent sects of Christians.

6. Population . — The population of Canada has,
in the course of the last 40 years, more than trebled
itself. The first census after the English con-
quered the country, was made by General Mur-
ray in 1765. This estimate falls considerably
short of the population of 1758, as mentioned by
Mr. Heriot in his recent Avork. Mr. Heaot states,
that “ the white inhabitants of Canada amounted
in 1758 to 91,000, exclusive of the regular troops,
who were augmented or diminished as the cir-
cumstances or exigencies of the country might re-
quire; that the domiciliated Indians Avho were
collected into villages in different situations in the
colony were about 16,000, and the number of
French and Canadians resident in Quebec was
nearly 8000.” If the Indians and inhabitants of
Quebec are not included in the first number, and we
suppose the Indians are not, as Mr. Heriot parti-
cularly mentions white inhabitants, the total popu-
lation, exclusive of regular troops, would then be
115,000. The province of [[Canada]] was not divided
into Upper and LoAver till the year 1792 ; the
census’, therefore, that were taken antecedent to
that period, included the population of the Avhole
colony. We are not acquainted AA'ith the source
from Avhence Mr. Heriot derived his information, but
the census of General Murray, seven years subse-
quent to 1758, stated the entire population of the
province to be, exclusive of the king’s troops,
76,275. This number included the Indians, Avho
were stated to amount only to 7400. Here is a
vast and surprising decrease of the inhabitants in
the course of seven years ; and upon the supposi-
tion that the numbers in 1758 were 115,000, there

is a loss of no less than 38,725 ; but taking it only
at 91,000, still there is a decrease of 14,725 of the
colonists and native inhabitants. We may easily
suppose that a long war, and finally the subjuga-
tion of the country, by a poAver totally opposite in
national manners, character, and principles, must
have occasioned a considerable diminution of its
population ; for besides those who Avere lost in
battle, numbers no doubt emigrated to Old France,
or to other countries where they might find a o-o-
vcrnment more congenial to their habits and senti-
ments. If we look at the number of i ndians Avhom
Mr. Heriot states to have been domiciliated in the
province in 1758, and the number given in by the
census of 1765, Ave shall there alone find a loss of
8600. It is possible that tlie ravages of Avar might
occasion this- great loss, for in the course of a cam-
paign, the Indians are oftener opposed to enemies
of their own description than to the European ar-
mies, and their mode of fighting occasions a greater
slaughter. We have no doubt, therefore, that
this remarkable decrease of the population of Ca-
nada, in the course of so short a period, may be
satisfactorily accounted for, when we consider the
war that preceded the conquest, and the very un-
settled state of the country for a considerable time
after that event. The dissensions betAveen the
army and civil power of the British go vein-
ment, and the disgust Avhich the French noblesse,
the clergy, and inhabitants, felt at being subjected
to the Avill of a foreign people, must haVe strongly
tended to emigration, and contributed, Avith the
losses sustained by the war, to thin the population
of the colony, Avhich was far from being recruited
by British settlers, who, in six years after the con-
quest, did not amount to more than 500 poisons.
In no other Avay, (if Mr. Heriot’s statement be
correct), can Ave account for the difference betAveen
the population of 1758 and the census of 1765.
In (783 another census was taken by order of the
Canadian government ; since then no other has
been made, nor have we any data upon Avhich we
can rely, for the forming a correct estimate of the
state of the country and its population at the pre-
sent day. But, by a comparison of the census of
1765 and 1783, we may be enabled to judge of the
benefits which Canada has received from its new
government, and perhaps form some notion of its
jjrogress for the last 20 years ; for this purpose we
shall present them in detail.

==[[Cbnsus’]]]==

