==[[Canada|CANADA]]==.

264

[find their way into Upper Canada. Of all the
British emigrants the Scotch are the most in-
defatigable and persevering. In poverty they
leave their native home ; yet seldom return to
it without a handsome competency. Their pa-
tient diligence and submission in the pursuit of
riches, together with their general knowledge •’nd
good sense, render them highly beneficial to the
mother country ; while their natural partiality for
their ancient soil secures their steady attachment
and adherence to the British government.

7. Manmrs and Ciistoms.—'Ylhe houses of the
Habitans are composed of logs slightly smoothed
with the axe, la’d upon each other, and dove-
tailed at the corners. Sometimes a frame-work is
first constructed, and the logs laid upon each other
between two grooves. The interstices are filled with
clay or mud, and the sides of the building washed
outside and in, with lime dissolved in water. This,
they say, has the property of preserving the wood
better than paint from the effects of the weather
and vermine ; at all events, it has the property of
being cheaper, which is a consideration of more im-
portance to them than weather or vermine. The
chimney is built in the centre of the house ; and
the room which contains the fire-place is the
kitchen . The rest are bed-rooms, for it matters not
how many apartments a liouse consists of ; they are
seldom without one or two beds in each, according
to the size of the family. This indispensable piece
of furniture, which is always placed in one corner
of the room, is a sort of four-post bedstead without
the pillars, and raised three or four feet from the
ground. At the head there is generally a canopy
or tester fixed against the wall, under which the
bed stands ; upon the bedstead is placed a feather or
straw bed, with the usual clothes, and covered with
a patchwork counterpane, or green stuff quilt. In
winter, the men frequently lay themselves along the
hearth, or by the stove, wrapped up in abuffalorobe.
In the middle of the night they will get up, stir the
fire, smoke their pipe, and lie downagain till morn-
ing. The furniture is plain and simple, and most
commonly of their own workmanship. A few
wooden chairs, with twig or rush bottoms, and
two or three deal tables, are placed in each room,
and are seldom very ornamental ; they, however,
suffice, wilh a proper number of wmoden bowls,
trenchers, and spoons^ for the use of the family at
meals. A press and two or three large chests con-
tain their wearing apparel, and other property.
A buffet in one corner contains their small dis-
play of cups, saucers, glasses, and tea-pots, while
a few broken sets may perhaps grace the mantle-
piece. A large clock is often found in their best

apartment, and the sides of the room are orna-
mented with little pictures, or waxen images of
saints and crucifixes, of the holy virgin and her
son. An iron stove is generally placed in the
largest apartment, with a pipe passing through
the others into the chimney. The kitchen dis-
plays very little more than kettles of soup, tureens
of milk, a table, a dresser, and a few chairs.

==[[The Children Of The Habitans Are Generally
Pretty When Young|The children of the Habitans are generally
pretty when young]]==, but from sitting over the
stoves in winter, and labouring in the fields in
summer, their complexion becomes swarthy, and
their features ordinary and coarse. The boys
adopt the pernicious habit of smoking, almost as
soon as they have strength to hold a pipe in their
mouth : this must insensibly injure the constitu-
tion, though from the mildness of their tobacco,
its effects must be less deleterious than that used in
the United States or British West Indies. The
girls, from manual labour, become strong-boned
and masculine ; and after 30 years of age, have
every appearance of early decrepitude ; yet their
constitutions frequently remain robust and healthy,
and some few live to a considerable age. The
women are prolific, and fat chubby children may
be seen at every Habitan’s door. We have never
heard, however, that the St. LaAvrence possesses
such properties as are ascribed to the waters of the
Mississippi, which are said to facilitate procrea-
tion in the Louisianian females. It is even said,
that women who, in other parts of the world
could never breed, have become pregnant in a
year after their arrival in Louisiana. The man-
ners of the Habitans are easy and polite. Their
behaviour to strangers is never influenced by the
cut of a coat or a fine perriwig. It is civil and
respectful to all, without distinction of persons.
They treat their superiors with that polite defe-
rence which neither debases the one, nor exalts
the other. They are never rude to their inferiors
because they are poor, for if they do not relieve
poverty, they will not insult it. Their carriage
and deportment are easy and unrestrained ; and
they have the air of men who have lived all their
days in a town rather than in the country. They
live on good terras Avith each other ; parents and
children to the third generation residing frequently
in one house. The farm is divided as long as
there is an acre to divide; and their desire of
living together is a proof that they live happy,
otherwise they would be anxious to part. They
arc fond of celebrating their marriages Avith great
pomp ; and those who live in the towns, and are
married in the morning, often parade the streets
with their friends in the afternoon. The carriages]

