==[[Canada|CANADA]]==.

265

[made use of In Canada, are calashes for the sum-
mer, and carioles and berlins for the winter. The
calash is in general use all over the country, and
is used alike by the gentry and Habitans ; only
that tiiose belonging to the former are of a superior
description. The calash is a sort of one-horse-
chaise, capable of holding two persons besides
the driver, who sits in front upon a low seat, with
his feet resting upon the shafts. Tlie harness is
sometimes very heavy, and studded with a great
number of brass nails, but that is now nearly ex-
ploded, and has given place to a much lighter
and simpler caparison. It is used as well for carts
as for the calash, and is several pounds lighter
than the cumbersome English collar and harness.
Plated harness is used for the best calashes, though
made in the same simple form, and requires merely
a ring and a bolt, which, fastened to each shaft,
secures the horse in the cart "or calash, the sleigh
or the cariole. The carioles nearly resemble the
body of a one-horse-chaise, placed upon two
runners, like the irons of a pair of skates. They
are painted, varnished, and lined like the better-
sort of calashes. The driyer generally stands up
in front, though there is a seat for him similar to
that in the calash. Between him and the horse,
there is a high pannel, Avhich reaches up to his
breast, and prevents the splashes from being
thrown into the cariole. The body of the vehicle
is sometimes placed on high runners of iron,
though in general the low wooden runners are pre-
ferred, as they are not so liable to be upset as the
others. Seldom more than one horse is driven in
the cariole, but the dashing youths in the army,
the government service, or among the merchants,
are fond of displaying their scientific management
of the whip in the tandem style. There is hardly
a Habitant in Canada who does not keep his horse
and cart, calash, and berlin. Carters are also
numerous in the towns, and calashes or carioles,
&c. may be hired of them at a moderate price.
They stand in the market-places, both winter and
summer, looking out for employment. Their
horses are generally in good condition, though
their labour is hard, and their treatment severe.
The French Canadians are remarkably civil to
each other, and bow and scrape as they pass along
the streets. The carmen or peasants arc used to
meet cap in hand, with bodies bent to each other ;
sometimes the men kiss each other on the cheek,
but the practice is not in general use. They are
extremely civil and polite to strangers, and take
off their cap to every person, indifferently, whom
they pass on the road. They seldom quarrel but
when intoxicated ; at other times they are good
roL. I.

humoured, peaceable, and friendly. They are
fond of dancing and entertainments at particular-
seasons and festivals, on which occasions they
eat, drink, and dance in constant succession.
When their long fast in Lent is concluded, they
have their “ jours gras,” or days of feasting.
Then it is that every production of their farm is
presented for the gratification of their appetites;
immense turkey-pies ; huge joints of pork, beef,
and mutton ; spacious tureens of soup, or thick-
milk ; besides fish, fowl, and a plentiful supply
of fruit-pies, decorate the board. Perhaps 50 or
100 sit down to dinner ; rum is drank by the half
pint, often without water ; the tables groan with
their load, and the room resounds with jollity and
merriment. No sooner, however, does the clash
of the knives and forks cease, than the violin
strikes up, and the dances commence. Minuets,
and a sort of reels or jigs, rudely performed to the
discordant scrapings of a couple of vile fiddlers,
conclude the festival. See account of the inhabi-
tants of Quebec under that article.

8. Government . — The form of government ia
Canada is an epitome of the British constitution.
In the Upper province it assimilates itself nearer
to that of the parent country than in Lower Ca-
nada, the laws of which have unavoidably been
obliged to admit of some local alterations, in order
to adapt them to the majority of the people whom
they govern, and who difter in so many respects
from those of Upper Canada. The civil govern-
ment of the province consists of a governor, who
is also a military man, and commander- in-chief
of the forces; a lieutenant-governor, an executive
and legislative council, and house of assembly.
In the absence of the governor and lieutenant-go-
vernor, the president of the executive council
succeeds to the head of afiairs, as was exactly
the case a few years since ; Mr. Dunn being
then president of the province, in the absence of
general Prescott, the governor, and Sir Robert
Millies, the lieutenant-governor. On such .oc-
casions, the powers of the president are more cir-
cumscribed than those of the governor, and even*&lt;
the executive council is timorous, and reluctant
to take any responsibility upon itself. The execu-
tive council, like the privy council of England,
has the management of the executive part of the
government, and is appointed by his Majesty.
The legislative council, and house of assembly,
form the provincial parliament. The governor,
or person administering the government, repre-
sents the sovereign, and opens, prorogues, or
dissolves the assembly ; gives or refuses his as-
sent to bills, or reserves them for his Majesty’s]

==[[M M|M M]]==

