266

==[[Canada|CANADA]]==.

[pleasure. The bills to which he assents, 'are put
in force immediately, and true copies transmitted
to the British government, for the approbation of
the king in council. Certain acts of the provin-
cial parliament, which go to repeal or vary the
laws that were in existence at the time the present
constitution was established, respecting tithes ;
the appropriation of land for the support of the
Protestant clergy ; the constituting and endowing
of parsonages and rectories ; the right of presenta-
tion to the same ; the enjoyment and exercise of
any mode of worship ; the imposing of any bur-
thens or disqualifications on account of the same ;
the rights of the clergy to recover tlieir accustom-
ed dues or emoluments to any ecclesiastics; the
establishment and discipline of the church of
England ; the king’s prerogative concerning the
granting of waste lands of the crown within the
province ; are to be laid before the British parlia-
ment before they receive the royal assent. The
acts of the provincial parliament are merely of a
local nature, regulating the interior of the country,
and creating a revenue for the maintenance of the
government. The legislative council consists of
15 members, appointed for life by the governor,
who is invested with powers for that purpose by
his Majesty. No one can be a counsellor who is
not 21 years of age, and a natural born subject,
or naturalized according to act of parliament.
The house of assembly consists of 50 members,
who are chosen for districts and counties by
those who are possessed of freehold property of
the clear yearly value of 40/. The members for
cities and towns are chosen by voters, whose pro-
perty consists of a dwelling house and lot of
ground, of the yearly value of five pounds ster-
ling, or who have resided in the town for 12
months previous to the writ of summons, and shall
have paid one year’s rent for a dwelling or lodg-
ing, at the rate of 10/. sterling per annum. No
person is eligible to a seat in the house of assembly
who belongs to the legislative council, or that is
a minister of religion, or not a natural born sub-
ject, or naturalized according to law or conquest ;
nor any person that has been attainted of treason,
or disqualified by any act of the provincial par-
liament. All religions are tolerated in Canada in
the fullest extent, and no disqualification on that
account exists for the purpose of preventing any
person from a seat in the provincial parliament.
Catholics, Jews, and Protestants, have all an
equal right to sit, provided they are not disquali-
fied from any other cause. The assembly is not
to last longer than four years, but may be dissolved
sooner, and the governor is bound to call it at

least once in each year. The oath of a mem-
ber taking his seat is comprised in a few words.
He promises to bear true allegiance to the king,
as lawful sovereign of Great Britain, and the
province of [[Canada]] dependent upon it ; to defend
him against all traitorous conspiracies and at-
tempts against his person, and to make known to
him all such conspiracies and attempts which he
may at any time be acquainted rvith : all which he
promises, without mental evasion, reservation, or
equivocation, at the same time renouncing all par-
dons and dispensations from any person or power
whatsoever. The provincial parliament is held in
the old building called the Bishop’s Palace, situate
between the grand battery and Prescot gate, at the
top of Mountain street. Theassembly remains sitting
for about three months in the winter, and out of 50
members, seldom more than 20 attend ; one or other
contrive to elude their duty by pleas of illness or
unavoidable business. The French have a large
majority in the house of assembly, their number
being 36 to 14 British. The speeches are therefore
mostly in French, for the English members all un-
derstand and speak that language, while very few
of the French members have any knowledgeofEng-
lish. The debates, turning entirely upon questions
of a mere local nature, are seldom interesting.

==[[Previous to the year 1774]]==, the country was go-
verned by the ordinances of the governor alone ;
but the Quebec bill of that year extended Canada
to its ancient limits ; and its original system of
civil law, the ‘‘ Custom of Paris,” was restored.
A new form of government was introduced, and
the Roman Catholic clergy, except the monks
and Jesuits, were secured in the legal enjoyment
of their estates, and of their tithes, from all who
were of the Romish religion. No person profess-
ing the Protestant religion was to be subject to
the payment of tithes, their clergy being support-
ed by the government. The French laws were
introduced in civil cases, and the English law,
and trial by jury, in criminal cases. In 1791 a
bill was passed, which repealed the Quebec bill
of 1774, and divided Canada into two separate
provinces, the one called Lower, and the other
Upper Canada. By this bill, the present form
of government was established ; and the Canadians
now enjoy all the advantages of the British con-
stitution. In 1794 an act was passed for divid-
ing the province of [[Lower]] Canada into three
districts, and for augmenting the number of
judges.

9. The military. — The British government
seems at present disposed to maintain its posses-
sions in Canada upon a respectable footing. Many]

