==[[Canada|CANADA]]==.

267

[new appointments have taken place in that coun-
try, particularly in the military department. Six
inspecting field-officers of militia are among the
number ; but it is not yet known upon what plan
the militia is to be organized, or whether it is to be
organized at all. At present there are not 1000
either in Quebec, Three Rivers, or Montreal, that
are armed ; and they have furnished themselves
with clothing and accoutrements at their own
expence, and are in every respect like our volun-
teers, except that the latter are superior to them
in discipline. At the time that a war was expect-
ed, in 1807, between Great Britain and the
United States, the Canadian people universally
offered to embody themselves for the defence of
the country. The services of only 5000 were ac-
cepted, and they were never armed, as the neces-
sity of the case was not very urgent. The alacrity
and zeal with which the Canadians came forward,
were however highly honourable to them, and
afforded a strong proof of their good sense, in pro-
perly appreciating the happiness which they enjoy
under a mild and liberal government. The British
and F renchCanadians are divided into separate corps
of militia, and officered by their own people ; a
distinction which might as well be dispensed with,
for it is calculated to prevent that union of interest
and sentiment, which ought to prevail between all
classes of his Majesty’s subjects in the colony.

10. Laws . — The laws are now administered by
two chief justices, and six puisne judges, who
are divided equally between Quebec and Mont-
real. The chief justice of Quebec has however
the largest salary, and the title of chief justice of
the province. There is also a provincial judge
for the district of [[Three]] Rivers, who resides there,
and is assisted at the two superior terms by the
chief justice of Quebec, and one of the puisne
judges. The chief presides there only in crimi-
nal causes. There is also a judge of the court of
vice-admiralty, who resides at Quebec ; and a
provincial judge for the inferior district of Gaspe,
who resides on that government. Besides the
judges, there is an attorney-general, resident at
Quebec, and a solicitor-general, resident at Mont-
real. Exclusive of the courts of king’s bench and
common pleas, there is a court of appeal, which
sits the first Monday in every month, as long as
business requires. This court is composed of the
governor, or person administering fhe govern-
ment, and five or more members of the executive
council, with those judges who have not pre-
viously heard or decided upon the causes which
are appealed. A further appeal may be made to
his Majesty in council. The courts of quarter

sessions of the peace arc held four times a year.
The police of Quebec, Montreal, and Three
Rivers, is in the hands of the justices of the
peace : they also regulate the price of bread every
month, and meet once a week to determine ])ctty
causes and offences under ten pounds. Counsel-
lors attend, and argue for their clients, who are
put to great expence for summonses, fees. See.
The whole of the business has devolved into the
hands of the three magistrates, who erected the
edifice for the butchers in the Upper Town mar-
ket-place ; and though there are upwards of 30
justices of the peace in Quebec, yet few, except
the triumvirate, ever act as such. These magis-
trates decide causes with as much judgment as
they design buildings. Thelaws of Lower Canada
are, I. The Coutume de Paris,” or Custom of
Paris, as it existed in France in the year 1666, in
which year the custom was reformed. II. The
civil or Roman law in cases where the custom of
Paris is silent. 111. The edicts, declarations, and
ordinances of the French governors of Canada.
IV. The acts of the British parliament made con-
cerning Canada. V. The English criminal law
in toto, and the acts of the provincial parliament.
This complication of French and English laws
is rendered necessary by the two different com-
munities which exist in Canada, and may be di-
vided into four distinct parts, viz. The criminal,
civil, commercial, and maritime laws. The cri-
minal law is wholly English, and in its adminis-
tration, all are universally subject to its operations
without distinction of persons. The civil law, or
compound of laws regarding property, is taken
from the Coutume of Paris,” from the civil law
of the Romans, or from such edicts, declarations,
and ordinances concerning property, as have been
made at any time by the French governors of
Canada. To this civil jurisprudence, both the
British and French Canadians, in certain cases,
are subject. These laws embrace a variety of
subjects, particularly the feudal tenures, seignio-
ries, fiefs, and estates held nobly or by villain-
age ; moveable or immoveable property, marriage
dowers, and community of property between man
and wife. The commercial laws relate to mer-
cantile transactions, and are regulated nearly in
the same manner as in England ; except that in
such cases there are no trials by jury, which are
confined only to the criminal law. The maritime
law, or court of vice-admiralty, is wholly Eng-
lish. Law proceedings are carried on both in
English and French. At the first settling of the
colony, extensive lots of land, called seigniories,
many of them from one to five hundred square]

==[[M M 2|M M 2]]==

