==[[Canada|CANADA]]==.

268

[miles in size, were granted to officers o^ the army
and gentlemen-ad venturers : These lots were situ-
ated on the borders of the river St. Lawrence,
from Kainouraska to several leagues beyond
Montreal, comprehending a distance of more than
300 miles. These great proprietors, who were
generally men of moderate or small fortunes, and
unskilled in agriculture, were unable to manage
such vast estates : they were, therefore, under the
necessity of making over their lands to soldiers or
planters, on condition that they should receive a
quit-rent and certain services for ever. This
Avas introducing into America a species of tenure
someAvhat similar to that of the feudal government,
which had so long been fatal to Europe. The
superior ceded a portion of land to each of his
vassals, of about three acres in breadth, and from
70 to 80 in depth, commencing from the banks of
the river, and running back into the woods ; thus
forming that immense chain of settlements which
now exists along the shores of St. LaAvrence. The
vassal, on his part, engaged to work at certain
periods in the seignior’s mill, to pay him annu-
ally one or tAVO sols per acre, and a bushel and
half of corn, for the Avhole grant. This tax, though
but a small one, maintained a considerable num-
ber of idle people, at the expence of the only class
with Avhich the colony ought to have been peo-
pled ; and the truly useful inhabitants, those
engaged in laborious employments, found the bur-
den of maintaining a lazy noblesse increased by
the additional exactions of the clergy. The tithes
were imposed in 1667, and though this grievous
tax upon industry was reduced to a 25th part of
the produce of the soil, yet even that was an
oppression in an infant colony, and a grievance in
a country Avhmre the clergy had property allotted
them sufficient for their maintenance. There
are tAVO kinds of tenure in Lower Canada, viz. the
feudal tenure, and the tenure in free and common
soccage. By the first all the French Canadians
hold their lands, under certain distinctions. By
free and common soccage are held those lands
which the British settlers have received from the
croAvn, feAv of them holding lands under the feudal
tenure. In order to give some idea of the feudal
tenure in this country, it will be necessary to give
a sketch of the principal chapters of the “ Custom
of Paris.” The first and most diflScult chapter
treats of fiefs, the origin of Avhich is uncertain.
Before we come to the definition of the nature
and different kinds of fiefs, it must be observed,
that estates are divided into two kinds in the Cus-
tom of Paris : First, those held nobly ; and, second-
ly, those held by villainage. The estates held

nobly, are_the fiefs and Franc aleu noble; and
the estates held by villainage, are those held sub-
ject to cens or censive, and Franc aleu villain.
Fief is an estate held and possessed on condition
of fealty and homage, and certain rights, payable
generally by the new possessor to the lord of
whom the fief is held ; these rights are quint and
relief. The quint is the fifth part of the purchase
money, and must be paid by the purchaser : this
is somcAvhat similar to the fine of alienation, Avhich,
by the ancient English tenure, Avas paid to the
lord upon every mutation of the tenant’s property.
Relief is the revenue of one year, due to the lord
for certain mutations, as if a fief comes to a vassal
by succession in the direct line, there is nothing
due to the seignior but fealty and homage ; but
if in the collateral line, then a fine or composition
is paid to the lord upon taking up the estate,
Avhich was lapsed or fallen by the death of the last
tenant. The feudal lord, within 40 days after
the purchase of a fief has been made known to
him, can take it to himself by paying to the
purchaser the price Avhich he gave for it, Avith all
laAvful charges. This privilege, enjoyed by the
feudal lord, (and in Canada by the king), is for
the purpose of preventing frauds in the disposal of
fiefs ; for it has sometimes happened, that by an
understanding between the buyer and seller, the
quint or fifth has been paid upon only one half, or
even a quarter, of the purchase money, instead
of the Avhole. By the right, therefore, which the
lord possesses of purchasing the property himself,
Avhenever the nominal sum is not equal to the value
of the fief, he immediately ascertains the actual
amount of the purchase money, and either receives
the whole of the fifth share, or takes the property
into his own hands, at a price considerably below
its real value. If the fine is paid immediately,
only one-third of the quint can be demanded.
The succession to fiefs is different from that of
property held en roture^ or by vdllainage. The
eldest son takes by right the chateau or principal
manor-house, and the yard adjoining to it ; also
an acre of the garden joining to the manor-house;
If there are any mills, ovens, or presses, Avithin
the seigniory, they belong to the eldest son ; but
the profits arising from the mills, (Avhether com-
mon or not), and from the ovens and press, if com-
mon, must be equally divided among the heirs.
When there arc only two heirs coming to the
succession, the eldest son takes, besides the ma-
nor-house, &c. tAVO thirds of the fief ; and the
youngest son takes the other third : but Avhen
there are more tlian tAvo heirs, the elder son takes
the one half, and the other heirs take the remain-]

