==[[Canada|CANADA]]==.

269

[’ing half. When there are only daughters com-
ing to the succession, the fief is equally divided
among them, the eldest daughter having no birth-
right. In successions to fiefs in tlie collateral
line, females do not succeed with males in the same
degree. If the eldest son dies, the next does not
succeed to his birth-right ; but the estate must be
equally divided among the heirs. Franc aleu is a
freehold estate, held subject to no seigniorial rights
or duties, acknowledging no lord but the king.
Ccnsive is an estate held in the feudal manner,
charged with a certain annual rent, which is paid
by the possessor of it. It consists of money,
fowls, or grain. It is thus that most of the Habi-
tans hold their farms. The lods et ventes, or fines
of alienation, are one tAvelfth part of the purchase
money, and are paid by the purchaser on all mu-
tations of property en rolnre (or soccage) to the
seignior, in the same manner as the quint is paid
upon mutations of fiefs. The seignior has also the
same right of purchasing the property within 40
days, in case he suspects that there is any collusion
between the parties to defraud him of his dues.
The succession to estates held m roture is re-
gulated differently from the successions to fiefs,
that is to say, that the heirs all succeed equally to
estates en roture. The seignior, whenever he finds
it neccessary, may cut down timber for the pur-
pose of building mills and making roads, which
are considered of general benefit to his tenants.
He is also allowed one-tenth of all the fish caught
on his property, besides an exclusive right to the
profits of his grist-mills, to which all his vassals
are obliged to carry their corn, and pay a certain
portion for the grinding it. Some of the rents
paid by the Habitans to their seigniors, amount to
10 or 15 shillings per annum ; others pay no more
than a sol, a capon, or a bushel of wheat. But
from the /ods et vaites, upon the sale of farms, the
seigniors often derive from 501. to S00(. or SOOL
per annum ; even the barren seigniory of Gron-
dines brought the seignior in one year upwards of
80/. Farms on good land will sell, according to
their size, from 100/. to 500/. The Canadian go-
vernment paid upwards of 500/. for a farm which
they purchased for a certain individual, though it
only consisted of 60 acres clear, and 20 acres wood
land. The same was situated on the seigniory of
Becancour, in the district of [[Three]] Rivers. Mr.
Hart, the seignior, received between 40/. and 50/.
from the government, as his lods et ventes. It will
be perceived, by the practice of dividing the seig-
niories, fiefs, and farms, among the children of their
proprietors, how much the power of the seigniors
must be reduqed, and the people involved in litiga-

tion and (disputes. Hence the noblesse are now
nearly reduced to the common mass of the vulgar,
and the Habitans make but little progress towards
the acquisition of property and power.

==[[With respect to the division of property in ge-
neral]]==, according to the civil law of Canada, it
consists of moveable and immoveable property.
Moveable property is any thing that can be moved
without fraction. Immoveable property is any
thing that cannot be moved, and is divided into
two kinds, propres and acquits (acquisition.)
Propre is an estate which is acquired by succes-
sion in the direct or collateral line ; and acquit
is an estate or property that is acquired by any
other means. Community of property is the
partnership which huband and wife contract on
marrying ; but they may stipidate in their mar-
riage-contract, that there shall be no community
of property between them. The dot, or dowry,
is ail the property which the wife puts into the
community, whether moveable or immoveable.
But immoveable property falling to her in a direct
or collateral line, is a propre or real estate to her,
and does not fall into the community. The dower
is a certain right given to the wife by law, or by
particular agreement ; it is of two kinds, the cus-
tomary dower, and the stipulated dower. The
former consists of half the property which the
husband was possessed of at the time of their mar-
riage, and half of all property which may come
to him in a direct line. The stipulated dower is a
certain sum of money, or portion of property,
which the husband gives instead of the customary
dower. The widow has only the use of the cus-
tomary dower during her lifetime ; at her death
it falls to the children, who did not accept the
the succession of their father ; but her heirs suc-
ceed to the stipulated dower. Hence, by the
community which exists in marriage, no man
can dispose of any part of his properiy without the
consent of his wife ; and some compensation or
present is generally made to the lady on those oc-
casions. A gentleman, it is well known, was
once nearly prevented from purchasing a house,
had not the fortunate interference of a quarter-cask
of Madeira, and a piece of fine Russia sheeting,
created a considerable change in the sentiments of
his lady.

==[[The custom of allowing community of property
in mariages has frequently proved injurious to the
survivor]]==. If the wife clied without a will, the
children, when of age, would demand their mo-
ther’s share ; and it has often happened that the
father has been obliged to sell off all his property,
in prdev to ascertain its value, and divide it among]

