274

==[[Canada|CANADA]]==.

[ever, of several of the French members, have
hitherto i)a filed the more enlarged and liberal views
of the -British merchants, who are ever desirous
of affording the utmost facility to trade and com-
merce.

14. Co mmerce . — The commerce of Canada, pre-
vious to the conquest of the country by the English,
wastriflingand unimportant, and the balance oftrade
considerably against the colony. It is only within
the last 30 years that it has become of sufficient
magnitude to claim the attention of enterprising in-
dividuals, and to be of political importance to the
mother-country. It was, perhaps, an unfortunate
circumstance for Canada that it was colonized by
the French, who are a people little qualified for
agriculture, and less for commerce. Their flighty
and volatile imaginations having been checked by
the disappointment of not discovering gold or
silver mines, by which they had promised them-
selves the immediate possession of immense riches,
they could ill brook a residence in such a dreary
country, where the ground was covered one-half
the year with snow. Agriculture with them was
a matter of necessity rather than of choice, and it
is possible that they were very ignorant of that art.
The first settlers being composed chiefly of soldiers,
and men of a roving and adventurous spirit, very
steady or regular habits could not be expected
from them. The chase, therefore, offered greater
charms than the slow and tedious process of agri-
culture ; and few could be found who did not
prefer the gun to the plough. The produce of
the chase not only supplied them with provisions,
but also with clothing; and in a short time the
peltry which they procured in their excursions,
came to be estimated at its proper value, and af-
forded them a very profitable article for exporta-
tion to the mother-country. The forests, inde-
pendent of their animal productions, abounded
Avith inexhaustible quantities of valuable timber;
and the seas, rivers, and lakes, were equally abun-
dant in every species and variety of fish. These
articles, with a few other natural productions,
formed the only source of trade in the colony for
nearly a century and a half, and they were far
from being equivalent to the demands of the colo-
nists, who imported from France more than double
the amount of their exports, by which means their
expences greatly exceeded their incomes, and re-
duced the credit of the colony to a very low ebb.
— A variety of expedients were proposed and
adopted to remedy this defect; among the rest
was the issuing of paper-money, which in a few
years accumulated so rapidly, that scarcely any
coin was to be found in the country. French

sols, consisting of brass and a very small mixture
of silver, Avhich passed for rather less than Id.
were all that was circulated. The paper-cur-
rency having no stability in itself, in consequence
of its payment being protracted from year to
year, fell at length into disrepute, and at the
period of the conquest, more than 200,000/. were
due to the colony by the French nation, on
account of bills of exchange and paper cur-
rency. This sum was afterwards liquidated by
France, through the interference of Great Bri-
tain ; but the colonists sustained a very consider-
able loss. An extensive trade is now carried on
between Canada and the United States across
lake Champlain. The importations into Lower
Canada consist of various articles of merchan-
dise, oak and pine timber, staves, &c. and pearl
ashes, provisions, &c. ; and amounted in 1807 to
upwards of 160,000/. sterling. The exports from
Lower Canada to the United States do not amount
to half the value of the imports. They consist
chiefly of peltry and salt : the other articles are
of a trifling nature. The balance is therefore
greatly in favour of the States, which receive
the difference in specie. When the first embargo
law took place, it did not affect those states
bordering on Canada ; but in order to put all
the states upon a level, the American govern-
ment passed several supplementary acts, strictly
prohibiting all trade and ccmimerce with foreign
places. The impolicy of such a measure, and the
detriment likely to accrue to the newly-settled
states on the confines of Canada, were ably set
forth by the inhabitants of the town of Burlington
in Vermont, in their memorial to congress, pray-
ing a repeal of that part o^ the law which related
to their state.

==[[Several Americans Have Of Late Years Settled In
Montreal|Several Americans have of late years settled in
Montreal]]==, and carry on a lucrative trade through-
out the country ; nor do the merchants of that
place eye the exertions of the new-comers rvith
jealousy : on the contrary, the latter have experi-
enced a very hospitable and kind reception from
them. One great cause of the want of spirit and
enterprise among the Habitans, or Canadian land-
holders, who, generally speaking, are possessed of
considerable property, is occasioned by the re-
strictions of their priests, who Avill not permit
them to put their money out to interest. They
have no other mode of turning their money to
account, but by increasing their landed property,
or, if in trade, by increasing their stock. Hence
whatever profits and gains they are able to lay
up must be put into a strong box, if they wish to
secure it.]

