/

==[[Canada|CANADA]]==.

276

[success has hitherto attended the exertions of the
proprietors, several of whom are considerable losers.
The articles manufactured here consist of cast-iron
stove-plates, pots, kettles, and other domestic uten-
sils. Within the last twenty years, ship-building
has been carried on at Quebec and Montreal to a
very profitable extent every year. There are four
builders at the former place, and one at the latter ;
from six to eight vessels are launched annually :
they range between 200 and 500 tons, and are con-
tracted for upon an average at 10/. per ton. The
greatest advantage of this business is, that the men
can work at it both winter and summer. The cord-
age and rigging are obtained from England, but
the iron-work is mostly of Canadian manufacture ;
nearly 20,000/. is annually circulated in the country
for sliip-building. Upon a review of the preceding
account of the commerce of Canada it appears,
that a very sensible improvement has taken place
within the last twenty years ; and that the balance
of trade, upon the whole, is now much in favour of
the colony. It may be also worthy of remark, that
the imports from Great Britain and her colonies,
instead of increasing, have considerably diminished.
For several years past, the E. India and British
manufactured goods imported into Canada annually
from Great Britain, have been estimated at about
330,000/. sterling ; but during the year 1807, they
did not amount to more than 200,000/. : this sur-
prising diminution, while the demands of the co-
lony were increasing with its population, must na-
turally create astonishment, until it is known that
the deficiency is supplied by the United States,
partly by a regular trade, but much more by con-
traband. The articles now furnished chiefly by
the Americans, and which were formerly procured
solely from England, are tea, tobacco, and E. India
manufactured goods. By the table of imports re-
ceived at the custom-house at St. John’s, on lake
Champlain, it appears that in 1807, 42,000 lbs. of
tea, 187,887 lbs. of tobacco, and merchandise con-
sisting of British and E. India goods to the amount
of 30,000/. were imported from the United States
through the regular channel; while the quantify of
tea received from England was only 4200 lbs. and
tobacco 150,000 lbs : that exclusive of timber,
pot-ash, and provisions, the total amount was cal-
culated at i 00,000/. equal to one half the merchan-
dise received that year from Great Britain. Reckon-
ing even upon this estimate, the deficiency of im-
ports from Great Britain appears to be accounted
for ; but then no allowanee is made for the increa-
sing wants of the people, whose number must have
greatly increased within the last twenty years ; this,
however, is to be found in the great latitude that is

given to the introduction of goods from the United
States, without passing through the custom-house at
St. J ohn’s. The means of conveying them into
Canada, across the extensive boundary line, which
divides the two countries, are so easy, and require
so little exertion to avoid the Argus eyes of a cus-
tom-house officer, that every temptation is offered
to introduce articles which are either prohibited, or
pay any considerable duty. The facilities afforded
to smuggling between Canada and the United
States, have been suflSciently exemplified since the
promulgation of the embargo act ; for, in spite of
the armed militia and custom-house officers stationed
along the American side of the line to enforce the
laws, the timber, pot-ash, provisions, and almost
every other article brought into the province in
1808, has more than doubled the quantity received
from thence in 1807. A variety of curious ex-
pedients were resorted to by the Americans in
smuggling their produce over the line ; buildings
were erected exactly upon the boundary line, one
half in Canada, the other half in the States ; the
goods were put in at night, and before morning
were safe in Canada. Additional laws, however,
put a stop to this proceeding, and the officers were
empowered to seize all property which they sus-
pected was intended to be run into Canada ; but
the ingenuity of the Vermontese still evaded even
these rigorous mandates. They constructed a great
number of timber rafts, fastened them together, and
formed immense bodies of floating wood ; one of '
them even covered ten acres, and from its size, and
in ridicule of Mr. Jefferson, was called the Mam-
moth raft. These were manned wholly by French
Canadians collected for that purpose, and were
rowed within a short distance of the line ; when the
custom-house officers, aided by a detachment of
the militia, immediately took possession, and obliged
the people on board to cast anchor ; this was ac-
cordingly complied with, and for a few days the
rafts remained quietly moored. There were im-
mense quantities of provisions, pot-asli, and staves
on board ; and the people were conveniently lodged
in their wooden huts, which, with the great num-
ber of men employed to row them, formed a very
extraordinary spectacle. It was not long, however,
before the whole were soon in action again ; for a
violent gale of wind coming on one night, blew the
unweildly rafts, with all their civil and military
heroes on board, completely over the line. The
American officers and militia no sooner found them-
selves in Canada, than they hastily took to their
boats and rowed back tothe States, sorely chagrined
at losing so many valuable prizes. Strong remon-
strances were made by the commanding officers on]

