==[[Canada|CANADA]]==.

■277

[these expeditions, and information was sent to Mr.
President Jefferson, who at length was pleased to
issue a proclamation declaring the inhabitants of
Vermont to be in a state of rebellion and insurrec-
tion ; and ordered outre-inforceinentsofthe militia
to quell the disturbances. Tlie Vermontese were
much enraged at the idea of being considered and
denounced as rebels, in consequence of a few frays
between the custom-house officers and smugglers.
A great and serious inconvenience was felt at this
period by the British settlers in Missisqui bay, the
entrance from which into lake Champlain is cut by
the boundary line, and several rafts were thus pre-
vented from passing down the Richlieji river iiito
the St. Lawrence ; they having no outlet but by
way of the States. The lucrative trade, which is
carried on between Canada and the adjoining States,
has rendered the Americans very averse to a war
between the two countries, as the prosperity of their
respective States almost entirely depend upon that
opening for the disposal of their surplus produce.
Greater facility and advantages are afforded by the
exportation to Canada than to any of the maritime
towns in New England; nothing, therefore, but
absolute necessity would drive them into a war with
the British settlements. They also lay a duty of
nearly 15 per cent, on goods from Canada, while
their productions sent into that country pay but a
mere trifle. The Canadians are more inclined to
encourage the importation of goods from the States
than from Great Britain, because they are obtained
at a much cheaper rate, though generally of an in-
ferior quality. The intrinsic worth of an article is,
however, of less consideration to the inhabitants of
Canada than the price ; the best kind are seldom or
never to be procured in that country : the mer-
chants find their own advantage in the vending of
inferior commodities, upon which they obtain
much larger profits than they could procure upon
the better sort ; and the people are now so accus-
tomed to the use of these goods, that they scarcely
know how to appreciate those of a superior quality.
Much diversity of opinion has existed of late in
Canada, upon the propriety of establishing a bank
in that country : the British mercliauts of course
are eager for the creation of such an establishment,
having before their eyes the example of Great
Britain and the United States, where the banking
system is carried on with so much success and ad-
vantage. The subject was discussed in 1808, in the
bouse of assembly, and Mr. Richardson of Mont-
real, one of the members, answered the several ob-
jections that were urged against the establishment
of a bank in Lower Canada. A bill was then
brought into the house ; the following are its prin-

cipal features : — The stock is not to exceed
250,000^. currency, unless the government of the
province see fit to take an interest therein, in which
case it may be 50,000/. more. This stock is to
consist of shares of 25/. each. There are to be 2t
directors, who are to choose out of their number a
president and vice-president, whereof half are to be
for Quebec, and half for Montreal, at which cities
the two superior branches of the bank are to be
held, with a power of erecting offices of deposit and
discount in other parts of the Canadas, when' found
advisable. If government take an interest, they
are to appoint two directors. The dividends are to
be payable half-yearly. A deposit of 10 per cent,
is to be paid down for each share on subscribing,
which will be forefeited if the first instalment there-
after of 10 per cent, be not paid in due season.
The shares are put at a low rate, that they may be
more generally diffused over the province. Fo-
reigners may hold shares, but cannot be directors ;
they may, however, vote at general meetings by
proxy, if the proxy be one of his Majesty’s subjects.
The votes are endeavoured to be established on
such a scale of proportion as shall exclude an over-
bearing preponderance in those who shall hold a
large interest in the concern, and yet assure to pro-
perty therein that influence which it ought to pos-
sess in every well regulated institution. It is pro-
posed that there shall be no other corporate bank in
Canada during the continuance of the contem-
plated one ; but there is a power of revocation
thereof, under certain limitations and formalities, if
found to be hurtful in practice. The stock of the
bank may be increased when requisite, and its notes
are proposed to be receivable inpayment of duties
imposed on, or to be imposed by the provincial
legislature. It is doubtful whether the French
party in the house of assembly will coincide with
the ideas of the British merchants; the old French
paper currency is not yet forgotten, and will na-
turally prejudice a great many of them against the
introduction of a similar medium. The numerous
gangs of forgers who infest the boundary line, and
counterfeit immense quantities of the United States’
paper-money, and the innumerable paltry notes
for a few cents or half-dollars, which are in circu-
lation all over the Northern States, are certainly no
great inducements to create a similar establishment
in Canada, which would most likely give rise to
the same evils. In short, it involves considerations
of a very serious nature ; what may suit Great
Britain and the United States, may not answer in
Canada, and the mischievous effects of a paper me-
dium have already been felt in that province ;
though it must be allowed that the colony is at pre-]

