283

==[[Canada|CANADA]]==.

[prove and augment ; many of its inhabitants pos-
sess handsome fortunes, and nearly all of them a
moderate independence or income from trade.

16. Fur Trade . — The fur trade has been the
principal source of all the wealth which has for
many years been accumulated in the province.
This branch of commerce, which fell into the
hands of the English after the conquest, Avas car-
ried on for several years by individuals, on their
own separate account; but about 27 years ago,
the enterprising and active spirit of a Mr. M‘Ta-
vish laid the foundation of that association at
present known under the title of the North-west
Company, for the purpose of extending that trade
to its utmost limits. This Avas more likely to be
accomplished by the joint stock of a company than
the small properties of individual merchants, and
the result has justified the expectations of its au-
thor. Much jealousy and competition was, how-
ever, excited by those north-Avest traders Avho did
not associate with Mr. M‘Tavish and his friends,
and for several years the greatest animosity sub-
sisted between them. This opposition naturally
gave rise to a second company, consisting of the
individuals opposed to Mr. M‘Tavish. Among the
most conspicuous of the second association was
Mr. McKenzie, now Sir Alexander. The enter-
prising spirit of this gentleman is well known,
since the publication of his Travels across the
North-west Continent to the Pacific Ocean. The
concerns of his company Avere, we find, managed
with as much ability as the other, Avhich made
their opponents seriously Avish to combine the two
associations in one; but the high spirit of Mr.
M‘Tav1sh would not allow it : he resolutely with-
stood all attempts at an accommodation, and spared
neither expence nor trouble to crush the exertions
of diis rivals. Death, however, which too often
annihilates the fairest hopes of sublunary bliss, put
an end to the contest ; Mr. M^Tavish died, the
companies immediately joined their stocks, and
commenced partnership, in which state they re-
main at this day; the business being conducted
under the firm of M‘Gillivray, Roderick McKen-
zie, and Co. though the number of persons who
have shares in the company amount, it is said, to
more than forty. The clerks, voyageurs, and In-
dians, employed by the north-west company,
amount to upwards of 3000. The clerks are all
adventurous young Scotchmen, who emigrate,
from penury, in the islands of the Hebrides, to
certain hardships and dubious affluence in the
dreary wilds of the north-west. They engage for
a terra of five or seven years, after which they
have a certain yearly allowance, or become part-

ners in the company. The hardships and fatigue
which they undergo, frequently tend to the ener-
vation of their frame, and the destruction of their
health ; so that at the period of fifteen or twenty
years, it is not uncommon for them to retire from
the company, with a fortune of 2O,000L and a
broken constitution. Of late years, the profits of
the company have been considerably diminished
by the restrictions on our commerce on the con-
tinent of Europe, Avhere the chief demand for furs
exists. Considerable quantities are, however, sent
to the United States, from Avhence they are ex-
ported to Europe under their neutral flag ; an
opening is thus created for the company’s peltry,
Avhich would otherwise have been very much con-
tracted during the war. The number of skins ex-
ported to England in 1807 Avas 460,000, and to
the United States 286,703 ; but the embargo in
1808 must have much lessened the demand from
that quarter. Upwards of 20,000/. is annually paid
in England for the duties on furs from Canada.
The capital employed by the north-west company
must be very extensive, as the returns are extreraey
slow. The trade is noAv pushed to the very extre-
mity of the continent, from the coast of [[Labrador]]
to the Pacific ocean, extending to the northward
beyond the arctic circle. The goods sent up an-
nually from Montreal, for the barter of furs from
the Indians, are upwards of four years before they
produce a return. The dangers and difficulties at-
tending the transportation of these articles so many
thousand miles across rivers, lakes, and portages,
have been well described by Sir Alexander M‘Ken-
zie in his History of the F ur-trade. The same well-
informed writer observes, that the articles necessary
for this trade “ are, coarse woollen cloths of dif-
ferent kinds ; milled blankets of diflbrent sizes ;
arms and ammunition ; twist and carrot tobacco ;
Manchester goods ; linens and coarse sheetings ;
thread, lines, and twine ; common hardAvare ; cut-
lery and ironmongery of several descriptions ; ket-
tles of brass and copper, and sheet iron ; silk and
cotton handkerchiefs ; hats, shoes, and hose ; cali-
coes and printed cottons, &c. &c. &c. Spirituous
liquors and provisions are purchased in Canada.
These, and the expence of transport to and from
the Indian territory, including wages to clerks, in-
terpreters, guides, and canoe-men, Avith the ex-
pence of making up goods for the market, form
about half the annual amount against the adven-
ture.” The necessary number of canoes being
purchased at about 300 livres each, the goods
formed into packages, and the lakes and rivers
being free of ice, (which they usually are in the
beginning of May), they arc then dispatched from]

