460

==[[C Ii R I S T O V A L|C II R I S T O V A L]]==.

[ful hurricane, which put a sudden stop to their
progress, lii consequence of this calamity, Mr,.
Warner returned to England to implore succour;
and it was on that occasion that he sought and obr
tained the powerful patronage and support of
James Hay, Earl of Carlisle. This nobleman
caused a ship to be fitted out, laden with all kinds
of necessaries. It was Ciilled the Hopewell ; and
arrived at St. Christopher’s on the 18th of May
1624 ; and thus he certainly preserved a settlement
which had otherwise died in its infancy. Warner
himself did not return to St. Christoper’s until the
year following. He was then accompanied by a
large body of recruits, and D’Esnambuc arrived
about the same time, perhaps the same day. This
latter was the captain of a French privateer ; and
having, in an engagment with a Spanish galleon of
superior strength, been very roughly handled,, he
was obliged, after losing several of his men, to seek
refusre in these islands. He brought with him, to
St. Christopher’s about thirty hardy veterans, and
they were cordially received by the English, who
appear at this time to have been under some appre-
hensions of the Charibes. Hitherto Warner’s first
colony had lived on friendly terms with these poor
savages, by whom they were liberally supplied
with provisions ; but having seized on their lands,
the consciousness of deserving retaliation made the
planters apprehensive of an attack, when probably
none was intended. Du Tertre relates, that flip
French and English receiving information of a
projected revolt, concurred in a scheme for seizing
the conspirators beforehand, Accordingly they
fell on the Charibes by night, and having mur-
dered in cold blood from 100 to 120 of the stoutest,
drove all the rest from the island, except such of
the women as were young and handsome, of whom,
says the reverend historian, they made concubines
and slaves. Such is the account of a contemporary
author, Pere Du Tertre, who relates these trans-
actions with perfect composure, as founded on
common usage, and not unwarrantable in their na-
ture. He adds, that such of the Charibes as
escaped the massacre, having given the alarm to
their countrymen in the neighbouring islands, a
large body of them returned soon afterwards,
breathing revenge ; and now the conflict became
serious. The Europeans, however, more from
the superiority of their weapons, than of their
valour, became conquerors in the end ; but their
triumph was dearly purchased, 100 of their num-
ber having been left dead on the field of battle.
After this exploit, which Du Tertre calls a glorious
victory, the Charibes appear to have quitted alto-
gether this and soipe of the small islands in the

neighbourhood, and to have retired southwards.
The two leaders, Warner and D’Esnambuc, about
the same time, found it necessary to return to
Europe for the purpose of soliciting succour fiom
their respective nations ; and bringing with them
the name of conquerors, they severally met with all
possible encouragement. Warner was knighted
by his sovereign, and through the interest of his
noble patron sent back as governor in 1626, with
400 new recruits, amply supplied with: ne?
cessaries of all kinds ; while D’Esnambuc, unr
der the patronage of Richlieu, (the minister of
France), project^ tlie establishment of an exclu&gt;*
sive company for trading to this and some of the
other islands. That minister, concurred with
D’Esnambuc in opinion, that such an institution
w'as best adapted to the purposes of commerce and
colonization ; an erroneous conclusion, which
D’Esnambuc himself had soon abundant occasion
to lament; for the French in general either mis-
understood or disapproved the project. Subscrip-
tions came in reluctantly, atid the ships which thp
new company fitted out on this occasion, were so
wretchedly supplied with provisions and necesr
saries, tliat of 532 recruits, who sailed from
France with D’Esnambuc, in February 1627, the
greater part perished miserably at sea for want of
food.

==[[The English Received The Survivors With Com 
Passion And Kindness ; And For|The English received the survivors with com-
passion and kindness ; and for]]==, preventing contests
in future about their respective limits, the comr
manders of each, nation agreed to divide the whole
island pretty equally between their followers. A
treaty of partitipn for this pur^mso was reduced to
writing, and signed, with many formalities, on
the third of May 1627. Tlie island was invaded
by the Spaniards in 1629 ; after this there took
place a serious contest between, the English and
the French possessors; and the conduct, of the
latter on this occasion was deemed so cruel and
treacherous, that it was assigned by King Wil-
liam «md Queen Mary among the causes which
induced them to declare war against the French
nation. Even fortune fierself, inclining at length to
the side of justice, from henceforward deserted
them ; for, after they had, continued about eight
months sole masters of the island, the English under
the command of General Codrington, returning
in great force, not only compelled the French irir
habitants to surrender, but actu.illy transported
1800 of them to Martinico and Hispaniola, It is
true, that reparation was stipulated to be made
them by the treaty of Ryswic, in 1697 ; but war
again breaking out between the two nations, in
1702, the French planters derived but little ad- j

