461

==[[C H R I S T|C H R I S T]]==

vantage from that clause in their favour. They

ad, however, in 1705, the gloomy satisfaction to
behold many of the English possessions again laid
waste by a French armament, which committed
Mich ravages, that the British parliament found it
necessary to distribute the sum of 103,000/. among
the sufferers, to enable them to resettle their plan-
tations. Happily this was the last exertion of
national enmity and civil discord within this little
community ; for at the peace of Utrecht, the
island was ceded wholly to the English, and the
French possessions publicly sold for the benefit of
the English government. In 1733, 80,000/. of
the money was appropriated as a marriage por-
tion with the Princess Anne, who was betrothed to
the Prince of Orange. Some few of the French
planters, indeed, who consented to take the oaths,
were naturalized, and permitted to retain their
estates. Such were the origin and progress of the
British establishment in the island of [[St]]. Christo-
pher. The glorious circumstances which attended
the French invasion in the beginning of 1782,
when a garrison of less than 1000 effective men
(including the militia) was attacked by 8000 of the
best disciplined troops of France, supported by
affect of 32 'ships of war; the consequent surren-
der of the island, after a most vigorous and noble
defence ; and its restoration to Great Britain by
the general peace of 1783, will long be in the re-
collection of every Englishman ; but we cannot
forbear to put it upon record, that at the siege of
Brimstone hill, the enemy’s batteries, consisting of
24 mortars and 23 pieces of lieavy artillery, were
continually, for five weeks and 34 days, firing on
a spot of ground where the greatest diameter was
not more than 200 yards, before the British would
surrender — that Rodney’s celebrated victory took
place on the 12th of April 1782, lasting from
seven in the morning to half past six in the even-
ing, when five ships, commanded by the Count
de Grasse, were taken, another sunk, and the
admiral himself made prisoner.

==[[This island is divided into nine parishe]]==.s, and
contains four towns and hamlets, viz. Basseterre,
(the present capital, as it was formerly that of the
French, containing about 800 houses), Sandy-point,
Old-road, and Deep-bay. Of these, the two first are
ports of entry, established by law. The fortifications
consist of Charles-fort and Brimsone-hill, both
near Sandy-point; three batteries at Basseterre,
one at Fig-tree-bay, another .at Palrneto-point, and
some smaller ones of no great importance. The
proportion which St. Christopher’s contributes,
with the other islands^ towards an honourable pro-
vision for the governor-general, is 1000/. cur-
leucy per arm. which is settled on him by the as-

==[[O V Al|O V AL]]==.

sembly immediately on his arrival. He has be-
sides some perquisites ; and in time of war they
are considerable. Each island within this govern-
ment has a separate council, and each of them •
an assembly, or house of representatives. In St.
Christopher^s, the council should consist of 10
members, but it is seldom that more than seven
are present. The house of assembly is composed
of 24 representatives, of whom 15 make a quo-
rum. The requisite qualification is a freehold ot
40 acres of land, or a house worth 40/. a year.
Of the electors, the qualification is a freehold of
10/. per ann. Its government is comprehended
under the title of that- of the Leeward Charibean
islands. The governor of this and the other
islands in the same government is chancellor by
his office, and in St. Christopher’s sits alone. In
this island, as in Jamaica, the jurisdiction of both
the king’s bench and common pleas centres in
one superior court, wherein justice is administered
by a chiefrjustice and four puisne judges. The
chief is appointed by the crown, the others by the
governor in the king’s name, and they all hold
their commissions during pleasure. The office of
chief judge is worth about 600/. per ann. The
emoluments of the assistant judges are trifling. St.
Christopher’s is about 14 leagues in circuit, and
contains 43,726 acres of land, of which about
17,000 acres- are appropriated to the growth of
sugar, and 4000 to pasturage. As sugar is the
only commodity of any account that is raised, ex-
cept provisions and a little cotton, it is probable,
that nearly one-half the whole island is unfit for
cultivation. The interior part of the country con-
sists indeed of many rugged precipices and bar-
ren mountains. Of these the loftiest is mount
Misery, (e videutly a dec.ayed volcano), which rises
3711 feet in perpendicular height from the sea.
Nature, however, has made abundant amends for
the sterility of the mountains by the fertility she
has bestowed upondhe plains. No part of the
W. Indies possesses even the same species of soil
that is foundr in St. Christopher’s. It is in gene-
ral a dark grey loam, so light and porous as to be
penetrable by the slightest application of the hoe.

==[[It is thought to be the production of subterraneous
fires]]==, the black ferruginous pumice of naturalists,
finely incorporated with a pure loam or virgin
mould. The under-stratum is gravel, from eight
to 12 inches deep. Clay is no where found, ex-
cept. at a considerable height in the mountains.
Canes, planted in particular spots, have been
known to yield 8000 lbs. of Muscovado sugar
from a single acre. One gentleman, in a favour-
able season, made 6400 lbs. or four hogsheads of
16 cwt. each per acre, on.aa.average return of hisj

