508

==[[Connecticut|CONNECTICUT]]==.

[state of [[Massachusetts]]. The counties are divided
and subdivided into townships and parishes ; in
each of which is one or more places of public
worship, and school-houses at convenient distances.
The number of townships is about 200. Each
township is a corporation invested with powers suf-
ficient for their own internal regulation. The
number of representatives is sometimes 180; but
more commonly about 160 ; a number fully ade-
quate to legislate for a wise and virtuous people,
well informed, and jealous of their rights ; and
whose external circumstances approach nearer to
equality than those, perhaps, of any other people
in a state of civilization in the world.

==[[The principal rivers in this state are]]==, Connecti-
cut, Housatonick, the Thames, and their branches,
which, with such others as are worthy of notice,
are described under their respective names. The
whole of the sea-coast is indented with harbours,
many of which are safe and commodious ; those
of New London and New Haven are the most im-
portant. This state sends seven representatives to
congress. Connecticut, though subject to the ex-
tremes of heat and cold, in their seasons, and to
frequent sudden changes, is very healthful. It is
generally broken land, made up of mountains,
hills, and valleys ; and is exceedingly w'ell-watered.
Some small parts of it are thin and barren. Its
principal productions are Indian corn, rye, wheat
in many parts of the state, oats, and barley, which
are heavy and good, and of late buck-wheat, flax
in large quantities, some hemp, potatoes of several
kinds, pumpkins, turnips, peas, beans, &c. &c. ;
fruits of all kinds which are common to the cli-
mate. The soil is very well calculated for pas-
turage and mowing, which enables the farmers to
feed large numbers of neat cattle and horses.

==[[The Trade Of Connecticut Is Principally With The
W|The trade of Connecticut is principally with the
W]]==. India islands, and is carried on in vessels from
60 to 140 tons. The exports consist of horses,
mules, oxen, oak-staves, hoops, pine-boards, oak-
plank, beams, Indian corn, fish, beef, pork, &c.
Horses, live cattle, and lumber, are permitted in
the Dutch, Danish, and French ports. A large
number of coasting vessels are employed in carry-
ing the produce of the state to other states. To
Rhode island, Massachusetts, and New Hamp-
shire, they carry pork, wheat, corn, and rye ;
to N. and S. Carolina, and Georgia, butter,
cheese, salted beef, cider, apples, potatoes, hay,
&c. and receive in return, rice, indigo, and money.
But as New York is nearer, and the state of the
markets always well known, much of the produce of
Connecticut, especially of the w. parts, is carried
there ; particularly pot and pearl-ashes, flax-seed.

beef, pork, cheese and butter, in large quantities.
Most of the produce of Connecticut river from the
parts of Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Ver-
mont, as well as of Connecticut, which are adja-
cent, goes to the same market. Considerable
quantities of the produce of the e. parts of the
state are marketed at Boston, Providence, and
Norwich. The value of the whole exported pro-
duce and commodities from this state, before the
year 1774, was then estimated at about 200,000?.
iav/ful money annually. In the year ending Sept.
SO, 1791, the amount of foreign exports was
710,340 dollars, besides articles carried to differ-
ent parts of the United States, to a great amount.
In the year 1792, 749,925 dollars; in the year
1793, 770,239 dollars ; and in the year 1794,
806,7'46 dollars. This state owns and employs in
the foreign and coasting trade 32,897 tons of
shipping.

==[[The Farmers In Connecticut|The farmers in Connecticut]]==, and their fami-
lies, are mostly clothed in plain, decent, home-
spun cloth. Their linens and woollens are manu-
factured in the family way ; and although they
are generally of a coarser kind, they are of a
stronger texture, and much more durable than
those imported from France anrl Great Britain.
Many of their cloths are fine and handsome. Here
are large orchards of mulberry-trees ; and silk-
worms have been reared so successfully, as to pro-
mise not only a supply of silk to the inhabitants,
buta surplnssagefor exportation. In New Haven are
linen and button manufactories. In Hartford a wool-
len manufactory has been established ; likewise glass
works, a snuft' and powder mill, iron works, and a
slitting mill. Iron-works are established also at Sa-
lisbury, Norwich, and other parts of the state. At
Stafford is a furnace at which are made large
quantities of hollow ware, and other ironmongery,
sufficient to supply the whole state. Paper is ma-
nufactured at Norwich, Hartford, New Haven,
and in Litchfield county. Ironmongery, hats,
candles, leather, shoes, and boots, are manufac-
tured in this state. A duck manufactory has been
established at Stratford. The state of [[Connecticut]]
is laid out in small farms, from 50 to 300 and 400
acres each, which are held by the farmers in fee
simple; and are generally well cultivated. The
state is chequered with innumerable roads or high-
ways crossing each other in every direction. A
traveller in any of these roads, even in the most
unsettled parts of the state, will seldom pass more
than two or three miles without finding a house or
cottage, and a farm under such improvements as
to afford the necessaries for the support of a family.
The whole state resembles a well cultivated garden,]

