610

==[[Connecticut|CONNECTICUT]]==.

[==[[There is no necessity of serving an apprentice-
ship to the business]]==, nor of a large stock of money
to commence it to advantage. Farmers who deal
much in barter, have less need of money than any
other class of people. The ease with which a
comfortable subsistence is obtained, induces the
husbandman to marry young. The cultivation of
his farm makes him strong and healthful. He
toils cheerfully through the day, eats the fruit of
his own labour with a gladsome heart, at night de-
voutly thanks his bounteous God for his daily
blessings, retires to rest, and his sleep is sweet.
Such circumstances as these have greatly contri-
buted to the amazing increase of inhabitants in this
state. Besides, the people live under a free go-
vernment, and have no fear of a tyrant. There
are no overgrown estates, with rich and ambitious
landlords, to have an undue and pernicious in-
fluence in the election of civil officers. Property
is equally enough divided; and must continue to
be so, as long as estates descend as they now do.
No person is prohibited from voting. He who has
the most merit, not he Avho has the most money,
is generally chosen into public office. As instances
of this, it is to be observed, that many of the citi-
zens of Connecticut, from the humble walks of
life, have arisen to the first offices in the state, and
filled them with dignity and repulation. That
base business of electioneering, which is so di-
rectly calculated to introduce wicked and design-
ing men into office, is yet but little known in Con-
necticut. A man who wishes to be chosen into
office, acts wisely, for that end, when he keeps
his desires to himself.

==[[A Thirst For Learning Prevails Among All Ranks Of
People In The State|A thirst for learning prevails among all ranks of
people in the state]]==. More of the young men in
Connecticut, in proportion to their numbers, re-
ceive a public education, than in any of the states.
The revolution, which so essentially affected the
government of most of the colonies, produced no
very perceptible alteration in the government of
Connecticut. While under the jurisdiction of
Great Britain, they elected their own governors,
and all subordinate civil officers, and made their
own laws, in the same manner and with as little
controul as they now do. Connecticut has ever
been a rejmblic, and perhaps as perfect and as
happy a republic as has ever existed. While
other states, more monarchical in their governmen
and manners, have been under a necessity of un-
dertaking the difficult task of altering their old, or
forming new constitutions, and of changing their
monarchical for republican manners, Connecticut
has uninterruptedly proceeded in her old track,
both as to government and manners ; and, by these

means, has avoided those convulsions which have
rent other states into violent parties.

==[[The Present Territory Of Connecticut|The present territory of Connecticut]]==, at the
time of the first arrival of the English, was pos-
sessed by the Pequot, the Mohegan, Podunk, and
many other smaller tribes of Indians. In 1774,
there were of the descendants of the ancient natives
only 1363 persons ; the greater part of whom
lived at Mohegan, between Norwich and New
London. From the natural decrease of the In-
dians, it is imagined that their number in this state
do not now exceed 400. The first grant of Connec-
ticut was made by the Plymouth council to the
Earl of Warwick, in 1630. The year following
the earl assigned this grant to Lord Say and Seal,
Lord Brook, and nine others. Some Indian traders
settled at Windsor in 1633. The same year, a
little before the arrival of the English, a few Dutch
traders settled at Hartford, and the remains of the
settlement are still visible on the bank of Connec-
ticut river. In 1634, Lord Say and Seal, &c.
sent over a small number of men, who built a fort
at Saybrook, and made a treaty with the Pequot
Indians for the lands on Connecticut river. Mr.
Haynes and Mr. Hooker left Massachusetts bay in
1634, and settled at Hartford. The following
year, Mr. Eaton and Mr. Davenport seated them-
selves at New Haven. In 1644, the Connecticut
adventurers purchased of Mr. Fenwick, agent
for Lord Say and Seal, and Lord Brook, their right
to the colony, for 1600/, Connecticut and New
Haven continued two distinct governments for
many years. At length, John Winthrop, Esq.
who had been chosen governor of Connecticut,
was employed to solicit a royal charter. In 1662,
Charles II, granted a charter, constituting the two
colonies for ever one body corporate and politic,
by the name of “ The Governor and Company of
Connecticut.” New Haven took the affair ill;
but in 1665, all difficulties were amicably adjusted ;
and, as has been already observed, this charter
still continues to be the basis of their government.
The capital is Boston.]

[==[[Connecticut is the most considerable river
in the c]]==. part of the Linited States, and rises in
the high lands which separate the states of Vermont
and New Hampshire from Lower Canada. It
has been surveyed about 25 miles beyond the 45°
of latitude, to the head spring of its n. branch ;
from which, to its mouth, is upwards of 300 miles,
through a thick settled country, having upon its
banks a great number of the most flourishing and
pleasant towns in the United States. It is from
80 to 100 rods wide, 130 miles from its mouth.
Its course between Vermont and New Hampshire]

1

1

