550

==[[Cue|CUE]]==

==[[Cue|CUE]]==

the Nuevo Reynb de Granada ; situate in a great
valley called the Llano Grande, where is bred a
large proportion of neat-cattle. Upon its side is
the river of its name, which presently enters the
Saldana, and is full of fish. It is of a hot tempe&gt;
rattire, abounds in maize, cacaoj tobacco, yucas^
and plantains ; and amongst the sand of the river’s
side is found a great quantity of gold. It contains
700 housekeepers, and a little more than 80 In-
dians. It is 40 leagues to the s. w. of Santa Fe.

==[[Cuenca|CUENCA]]==, a province and corregimiento of
the kingdom of [[Quito]]; bounded n. by the province
of Riobamba ; s. by that of Jaen de Bracamoros ;
e. by that of Guayaquil ; w. by that of Quijos
and Macas ; n. e. by that of Chimbo ; and s. e.
by that of Loxa. Its temperature is mild,
balm and healthy. Great herds of cattle are bred
here, and it consequently abounds in flesh-meats ;
likewise in every species of birds, grains, pulse,
garden herbs, sugar, and cotton ; the natives mak-
ing of the latter very good woven articles, and in
which they trade, as well as in wheat, chick-peas,
bark, French beans, lentils, bams, and sweetmeats.
Its mines are of gold, silver, copper, quicksilver,
and sulphur; but none of them are worked; also
in the llanos or plain of Talqui, are some mines
of alabaster, extremely fine, though somewhat
soft. Tlie principal traffic of this province are
floor-carpets, cabinet articles, and tapestries, here
called pawos de cor/e, (cloths of the court), beauti-
fully worked, and which are so highly esteemed
that no house in the kingdom, that has any pre-
tensions to elegance and convenience, is seen with-
out them. It is watered by four large rivers, call-
ed Yanuneay, Machangara, Banos, and Tume-
bamba ; the latter being also called Matadero, and
is the largest. It abounds in bark and cochineal,
the latter being gathered in great quantities, and
employed in the dyeing of baizes, which are
esteemed the best of any in America. Its tanned
hides and prepared skins are equally in high esti-
mation. It is, in short, more highly favoured
than any other province in natural riches j and it
would not have to envy any other, were it not that
its inhabitants, who have been called Morlacos,
were of a haughty, domineering disposition, great
disturbers of peace, and more inclined to riot and
diversion than to labour. The capUal is

==[[Cuenca]]==, Santa Ana de, a city founded by Gil
Ramirez Davalos, in 1557, in the valley of Yun-
quilla, celebrated for its pleasantness and fertility ;
this valley is six leagues and an half long, and as
many wide in the middle of the serrania; from this
serrama issue, to water the same valley, four large

rivers, the first called Machangara, which runs r,
of the city, and very close to it; the second,
which runs to the n, is called Matadero, being also
nearthetown ; the third Yanuneay, at half a quarter
ofa league’s distance, and the fourth Banos: of all
these united is formed a very large one, which af-
terwards takes the name of Paute, and which has
in its environs mines of gold and silver. This city
is large, and one of the most beautiful of any in
the kingdom. The parish church, which was erected
into a cathedral, and head of the bishopric of the
province, in the year 1786, is magnificent. It
has four parishes, (he five following convents, viz.
of the religious order of St. Francis, St. Domingo,
St. Augustin, St. Peter Nolasco, and a college
which belonged to the regulars of the company of
Jesuits, two monasteries of nuns, one of La Concep-
cion, and the other of Santa Teresa, and an hospi-
tal, being one of the most sumptuous, convenient,
and well attended possible; the whole of these
being very superior edifices. The streets run in
straight lines; the temperature is kind, mild, and
healthy ; and the neighbourhood abounds in every
kind of flesh, and in whatsoever productions can
be required, as pu)ge, vegetables, and fruits.
Some very fine large cheeses are made here, which
resemble those of Parma, and are carried as dain-
ties to Lima, Quito, and other parts. The sugary
which is made in great quantities, is of the finest
and most esteemed sort, as are also the conserves
of various fruits, which are known by the name of
caccetas de Cuenca. A few years ago, a hat manu-
factory was established here, when a stamp was
made bearing the resemblance of an Emperor
Inca, and with the motto, “ Lahore duce, comite
fortuna.” This proved one of the best and most
useful manufactories of any in the city. In the
territory to the s. is the height of Tarqui, cele-
brated for being the spot where the base of the
meridian was taken by the academicians of the
sciences of Paris, M. Godin, Bouger, and La Con-
damine, assisted by Jorge Juan and Don Anto-
nio de Ulloa, who accompanied them, in 1742.
yhis city is subject to tempests, which form on a
sudden when the sky is clear, and which are ac-
companied with terrible thunder and lightning,
the women apply themselves to labour, and it is
by these that is carried on the great commerce
which exists in baizes which they fabricate, and
are held in high esteem, together with other wo-
ven articles. It is the native place of the Father
Sebastian Sedeno, missionary apostolic of the ex-
tinguished company of the Jesuits in the province
of Mainas- The population of Cuenca is 14,000

