2

ABA

ABE

[[ABACU]], a point of land on the s. coast of the
island of [[St]]. Domingo.

ABADES, a settlement of the province and go-
vernment of Popayan, in the district and jurisdic-
tion of San J uan de Pasto.

ABANCyVY, a province and corregimiento of
[[Peru]], bounded on the e. by the large city of Cuzco,
(its jurisdiction beginning at the parish of Santa
Ana of that city), and on the a), by the province
of Andahuailas ; n. by that of Calcaylares, form-
ing, in this part, an extended chain of snow-covered
mountains ; s. by the provinces of Cotabaraba and
Aimaraez ; s. w. by Chilques and Masques. It
extends 26 leagues from e. to w. and is 14 broad.
Its most considerable river is the Apurimac, which
is separated from it at the n. w. and bends its
course, united with other streams, towards the
mountains of the Andes. This river is crossed by
a wooden bridge of 80 yards long and S broad,
which is in the high road from Lima to Cuzco, and
other provinces of the sierra. The toll collected
here is four rials of silver for every load of goods
of the produce of the country, and twelve for those
of the produce of Europe. The temperature of
this province is mild, and for the most part salu-
brious, with the exception of a few vallies, where,
on account of the excessive heat and humidity,
tertian agues are not uncommon. It produces
wheat, maize, and other grain in great abundance,
and its breed of horned cattle is by no means in-
considerable ; but its principal production is
sugar, which they refine so well, that it may chal-
lenge the finest European sugars for Avhiteness ;
this is carried for sale to Cuzco and other pro-
vinces, and is held in great estimation. It also
produces hemp, cloth manufactures of the coun-
try ; and in its territories mines of silver are not
wanting, especially in the mountain which they
call Jalcanta, although the natives avail them-
selves not of the advantages so liberally held out to
them. Its jurisdiction comprehends 17 settle-
ments. Therfp«rb‘r/jewto,quotaoftribute,amounted
to 108,750 dollars, and it rendered yearly 870
for the alcabala.

The following are the 17 settlements ;

The capital,

Huanicapa,

Curahuasi,

Cachora,

Ant ilia,

Anta,

Ibin,

Chachaypucquio,

Sumata,

Auancay, the capital of
5

Limatambo,

Mollepata,

Pantipata,

Pibil,

Chonta,

Poequiura,

Surite,

Iluaracondo.

the above province.

founded in a spacious valley, which gives it its
title : it is also so called from a river, over which
has been thrown one of the largest bridges in the
kingdom, being the first that was built there, and
looked upon as a monument of skill. In the above
valley the jurisdiction of this province, and that of
Andahuailas, becomes divided. It is also memor-
able for the victories gained in its vicinity by the
king’s troops against Gionzalo Pizarro, in the years
1542 and 1548. It has a convent of the religious
order of St. Dominic ; this order being the first of
those which established themselves in Peru. 20
leagues distant from the city of Cuzco. Lat. 13°
31' SO* 5. Long. 72° 26' w.

Abancay, a settlement of the province and cor-
regimienlo of Cuenca, in the kingdom of [[Quito]],
situate on the shore of the river Paute.

ABANES, a barbarous nation of Indians, of the
Nuevo 'Rcyno de Granada, in the plains of San
Juan, to the n. of the Orinoco. They inhabit the
woods on the shores of this river, as well as other
small woods ; and are bounded, e. by the Salivas,
and w. by the Caberres and Andaquies. They
are docile, of good dispositions, and arc easily
converted to the Catholic faith.

ABANGOUl, a large settlement of the pro-
vince and government of [[Paraguay]]. It is com-
posed of Indians of the Guarani nation, and situate
on the shore of the river Taquani. It was disco-
vered by Alvar Nunez, Cabezade Vaca, in 1541.

ABARANQUEN, a small river of the pro-
vince and government of Guayana, or Nueva
Andalusia. It rises in the country of the Quiri-
quipas Indians, runs from s. to n. and enters the
Aruy.

[ABARY, a small river of Guayana, between
the Bi?rbice and the Demerary. See MAiiAtcA.j

[ABBEVILLE County, in Ninety-six district,
S. Carolina, bounded on the n.e. by the Saluda,
and on the s.xs. by the Savannah, is 35 miles in
length and 21 in breadth ; contains 9197 in-
habitants, including 1665 slaves.]

[ABBOTS, a small river of N. Carolina, which
runs s. xa. and enters the Pedi, at a little distance
from the source of this river, in the territory of the
Granville limits.]

ABECOCH I, a settlement of Indians of S. Caro-
lina, situate o;i the shore of the river Cousa. 'I'he
English have a settlement here, with a fort for its
defence.

ABEICAS, a nation of Indians of New France,
bounded on the w. by the Alibamis, and e. by
the Cheraquis. They live at a distance from the
large rivers, and the only produce of their terri-
tory is some canes, which are not thicker than a



